
NEAR Bringing Chainlink’s Leading Oracle Solution to its Open Web Ecosystem
COMMUNITY
July 30, 2020
We are excited to announce that Chainlink’s decentralized oracle network is launching on NEAR. You can view the TestNet repository and instructions, and in a few weeks developers can start building applications that are integrating real-world data into their smart contracts contracts. 

Our goal is to be the leading computing platform for the Open Web by providing developers with the best infrastructure for building future applications (including dApps). Chainlink is the most versatile off-chain connectivity in Web3; we recommend it as it is the industry leading oracle solution used by top DeFi teams such as Synthetix, AAVE and many others. We’re excited to collaborate with Chainlink to make decentralized oracles available to NEAR developers. Integrating Chainlink provides developers access to a large decentralized collection of security-reviewed nodes, an integration framework for connecting to any premium data source derived from credentialed APIs, multiple proven data solutions that can be quickly deployed on the NEAR blockchain, and much more. 

One of the first use cases for Chainlink on NEAR will be providing pricing data for DeFi applications by leveraging their Price Reference Data framework. Other use cases include Open Web applications connecting to Chainlink’s Web2 counter-parties to query their data (e.g., marketplace data for real estate, insurance, music, etc). Applications can ask for any generic data by creating a contract with the data provider nodes.

The Benefits of Chainlink for NEAR Developers 
Without oracles, smart contracts can only be written about data generated within the blockchain (on-chain) which is largely about ownership of various pieces of data (like tokens, NFTs, digital assets or data provided from outside).

Expanding to include off-chain data opens up a plethora of new applications and use cases, whether it be building crop insurance agreements for developing countries using satellite weather data, triggering options contracts based on stock market prices, or constructing trade finance automation applications that are connected to IoT and customs data. 

However, with this expansion in connectivity comes new attack surface area that must be secured. Fully decentralized blockchains interacting with data from centralized oracles introduces large risks to the end-to-end security and reliability of the smart contract.

To prevent such centralization issues, Chainlink provides a framework for building decentralized oracle networks that source and deliver off-chain data for smart contracts in a secure and reliable manner. It allows dApps to know what’s happening in the real world while retaining the decentralized, permissionless, and deterministic guarantees of the blockchain.


There are many ways NEAR developers can use Chainlink to augment the value of their dApps, including the following:

Access to secure node operators – The Chainlink Network contains a large and growing number of independent, security reviewed, and Sybil-resistant node operators that can be commissioned to provide specific oracle services, many of which are operated by leading blockchain DevOps and blockchain infrastructure teams.
Retrieve data from credentialed APIs – Chainlink’s modular external adapter technology gives your smart contract access to data from any paid or password protected API, enabling connections to premium data providers and permissioned enterprise backend systems.
Framework for decentralization – Chainlink provides a generalized framework for deploying decentralization at both the node operator and data source levels, ensuring high availability and redundant validation to the delivery and sourcing of external data to your application.
Proven solutions – Chainlink’s existing oracle design patterns already secure hundreds of millions and can be easily deployed on NEAR to allow contracts to obtain Price Reference Data and on-chain verifiable randomness, avoiding the pitfalls of trying to provision your own oracle infrastructure.
TLS Verification – Chainlink is pioneering TLS verification solutions through its well-known work on TownCrier, making oracles available that preserve privacy and provide integrity to any data source.
Everyone who has worked on getting NEAR to this point is extremely excited to see the community and partners get more involved in every aspect of the network’s development, operation, and ecosystem growth. This includes creating decentralized applications that are aware of off-chain events happening in everyday life and then reacting to these events through a variety of on-chain actions. The possibilities are truly limitless when combining on-chain and off-chain worlds, so we encourage developers to get creative as this field has so much untapped potential.

Illia Polosukhin, Co-Founder at NEAR Protocol, explained the importance of the Chainlink integration:

“Chainlink integration provides NEAR with most versatile oracle network in the market, as well as the ability to connect to any off-chain API. These are key building blocks for connecting Web2 and Open Web environments, which ultimately allows our developers to build a much wider range of applications, ranging from decentralized financial products and NFTs, to asset tokenization and insurance contracts.”

About NEAR Protocol
NEAR’s mission is to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. The NEAR platform is a decentralized application platform that is secure enough to manage high value assets like money or identity and performant enough to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands.

Technically speaking, NEAR Protocol is a public, proof-of-stake blockchain which is built using a novel consensus mechanism called Doomslug. NEAR Protocol uses a technique called “sharding” which splits the network into multiple pieces so that the computation is done in parallel. Parallelism radically increases throughput and allows the network to scale up as the number of nodes on it increases. With NEAR, there isn’t a theoretical limit on the network’s capacity.

NEAR core contributors have won multiple world championships in competitive programming and worked at major tech companies such as Google, Facebook, and Niantic. Find out more about NEAR Protocol on our website, follow us on Twitter, or join our community onDiscord. If you are curious about how to integrate with NEAR or whether it might be a good fit for your business needs, reach out to [email protected].

About Chainlink
If you’re a developer and want to connect your smart contract to off-chain data and systems, visit thedeveloper documentation and join the technical discussion onDiscord. If you want to schedule a call to discuss the integration more in-depth, reach out here.

Chainlink is an open source blockchain abstraction layer for building and running decentralized oracle networks that give your smart contract access to secure and reliable data inputs and outputs. It provides oracles to leading DeFi applications like Synthetix, Aave, and Kyber Network; numerous blockchains such as Ethereum, Polkadot, and Tezos; as well as large enterprises including Google, Oracle, and SWIFT.
deadmau5 Launches NFT Partnership with Mintbase and NEAR
COMMUNITY
December 3, 2021
deadmau5, the DJ and Producer has teamed up with rockband Portugal. the Man, Mintbase, and NEAR to release a single as an NFT.

The song, titled “this is fine” is being sold as a collection of one million NFTs exclusively on the Mintbase NFT marketplace, which runs on the carbon neutral NEAR blockchain, with tokens now on sale.

By releasing the song as an NFT, deadmau5 and Portugal. the Man could be the first artists to reach platinum status — selling one million copies in the US — with an NFT single release.

The announcement took place in Miami during the Art Basel art fair, an annual event which draws thousands of tastemakers from the art-world, entertainment, fashion and tech.


Half of the NFTs (500,000) are being sold on Mintbase for 0.25 $NEAR per piece, which is $2.19 at the time of writing. The remaining half million will be sold as additional awards with groundbreaking benefits. The ‘Ultimate Bundle’ includes 50,000 NFTs, artwork, a limited edition NFT, a merchandise pack and a highly-prized spot on the guest-list for a forthcoming deadmau5 show.

The lucky fan who collects a pack of 1,000 NFTs will receive a unique, alternate color single cover art for ‘this is fine’, that was created via a generative algorithm.

“NFTs aren’t really that complicated. What we are doing here is giving our millions of fans and people interested in NFT’s an easy way to get on board for an extremely reasonable price. The song is cool too,” said deadmau5.

The single release kicked off with one deadmau5-wrapped bus and two NEAR-wrapped buses circling Miami for a month, inviting art week visitors and locals alike to buy the track using the QR code on its side. The buses will then go ‘on tour’ in New York and San Francisco in December and January to reach music fans and the tech curious on both coasts.

For most people, buying NFTs has been a complex experience, involving additional fees, delays and multiple wallets. With NEAR and Mintbase, users will be able to buy NFTs using fiat cash instantly, with super low fees, thanks to an integration with payment rail provider, Stripe.

The announcement forms part of a wider series NEAR has launched to help people get to grips with Web3 technology around the world.

NEAR is on a mission to make blockchain and crypto a simpler experience that anyone can take part in. From buying NFTs, creating a DAO or joining a Guild, at NEAR it’s a simple as clicking a mouse. Find out how.
NEAR and Grupo Nutresa Partner for Customer Experience Innovations in Web3
UNCATEGORIZED
December 1, 2022
In a groundbreaking and innovative move, NEAR has partnered with Grupo Nutresa, one of the most important processors of food in South America, to bring Web3 to the grocery industry. This will see Grupo Nutresa building one of the first open-source loyalty points programs on NEAR with long-term aspirations to reach a million users in Colombia and Latin America. The partnership was established through the support of tech firm Peersyst.

Grupo Nutresa customers will in turn gain more autonomy and control of their rewards. Customers will also get additional security and the reassurance that points will not be stolen or denied, and can be transferred more efficiently. Leveraging NEAR’s technology will also increase usability and accessibility of the rewards system as a whole, saving customers from having to create multiple accounts or different logins for multiple platforms — they just need their easy to use NEAR wallet.

“We are excited to partner with one of the biggest multinationals in Latin America and help it to lead the way through its first Web3 loyalty programme,” says NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament. “Leveraging NEAR’s first-rate technology, the partnership will redefine what is possible when combining retail with the latest blockchain innovation, not just in Latin America but throughout the rest of the world.” 

Usability is key to loyalty
Rewarding customers for their support has always been a priority for the world’s top brands. Such programs not only engage customers and deliver incentives for them to return but also act as analytical tools, giving businesses insights into customers’ behaviour and preferences. 

With 87% of shoppers reporting they want brands to have loyalty programs and over 70% of consumers more likely to recommend a brand with a robust loyalty program, Web3 and digital wallets are pushing forward-thinking brands to explore new opportunities on platforms that are easy to use. 

As one of the biggest multinationals in Colombia, Grupo Nutresa manages several loyalty programs for its customers, collaborators, and providers. Those loyalty programs are now coming together into a single easy-to-use platform underpinned by blockchain technology, through support from Spanish technology company Peersyst Technology.

Onboarding the masses into NEAR and Web3
Grupo Nutresa sees NEAR as the ideal partner for these types of loyalty programs. NEAR Foundation sees the Grupo Nutresa partnership as a great opportunity to onboard the masses into the NEAR and Web3 ecosystems.  

“Our purpose is to make people feel recognized and valued by brands. Above all, what interests us most is that this is an opportunity to help build their dreams, through a service that provides them with significant redemption options and value,” says  Fabián Andrés Restrepo, Digital Transformation Leader at Grupo Nutresa. “This invitation is also addressed to companies that want to help make people’s dreams come true and reward their loyal customers, by becoming an ally of Grupo Nutresa and its portfolio of businesses. We see in NEAR an important ally for developing and implementing Grupo Nutresa’s loyalty strategy.” 

NEAR’s sustainability credentials also align with Grupo Nutresa’s own business strategy and deep commitment to create value for society as a whole. According to the 2021 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, Grupo Nutresa has been voted as the most sustainable food company in the world for two consecutive years, thanks to its effective implementation of social, environmental, and economic practices. 
NEAR Wallet Update: Staking and Withdrawing Tokens
COMMUNITY
October 12, 2020
On the journey to make blockchain-based apps accessible to everyday people, the NEAR Wallet plays a vital role for usability in the community. Usability for developers has been our priority in architecting the platform from day one, but as the MainNet gets closer to completing its final launch phase, it is important to consider usability of the tooling and user interfaces needed to support a thriving ecosystem of exchanges, applications, and integrations for NEAR users. The NEAR Wallet will make using applications and managing tokens easier than ever before.

Our previous release for the NEAR Wallet this summer announced NEAR Drops, a much simpler way to onboard new users to NEAR by making it possible to send links with $NEAR attached to them so app developers can seamlessly create accounts without their users having to worry about having a $NEAR token balance. 

Today, we’re excited to announce a new release from the Wallet Team which makes it easier for the community to stake with NEAR Validators using a new User Interface in the NEAR Wallet.

If you have a NEAR Wallet (only locked tokens supported for now), try it out!

A New User Interface for Staking
Key to the Proof-of-Stake model is how Validators are supported by the community via Staking. Validators earn NEAR token rewards for operating the nodes which run the network in the form of a static inflation rate of 5% each year, creating new tokens for Validators every epoch (~12 hours) as rewards. 

Validators must maintain a minimum amount of Stake to keep their Validator seat. Token holders are able to stake with a particular Validator they believe is performing well for the network and earn a portion of Token rewards generated by the network too. This incentivizes Token holders to stay involved with the community!

With this release, the NEAR Wallet now has a staking user interface built directly into the web app. 

To Stake:

Select “Staking” from the navigation bar (or dropdown on mobile)
Click the “Select Validator” button
Choose a validator
Confirm your choice and select “Stake with Validator”
Enter the amount of NEAR you would like to stake, and click “Submit Stake”
You will need to confirm two transactions, one to select the validator, and another to deposit and stake with the validator.

To Unstake:

On the staking dashboard (/staking), select your current validator
Click “Unstake” and confirm the transaction
After 36 to 48 hours (3 full epochs), you will be able to withdraw your stake. To do so, return to the validator page, and click “Withdraw”.

Monitoring Key Staking Information
Not only does this interface allows you to choose Validators to stake with and see key information you need to make a staking decision like:

Total Amount Staked: NEAR tokens your account has currently staked with Validators. These tokens are accumulating rewards. To access these tokens once again, you must first unstake and then withdraw them from the staking pool.
Unclaimed Rewards: Token rewards that have been earned, but not withdrawn from the staking pool. Unclaimed rewards are automatically restaked, which means your “Total Amount Staked” automatically increases over time, and your rewards are compounding.
Tokens Available for Withdrawal: These tokens have been unstaked and are ready to be withdrawn.
Tokens Pending Release: These tokens have been unstaked, but are not yet ready to withdraw. Tokens are ready to withdraw 36 to 48 hours after unstaking.
Validator Fee: This is the fee paid to the validator to stake on your behalf. This fee is only charged on your rewards earned not your total token balance staked to the Validator. Each Validator can set their own fees, so take this into consideration when deciding who to stake to.
Staking features in the NEAR Wallet are new and should still be considered beta. If you have any concerns or questions about staking, check out the docs, or pose the question to the community in our Discord chat.

Join the Community
Join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people who are excited for the future of the Open Web with NEAR. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.
Project Spotlight: TessaB- Blockchain for the Mobile Phone Industry
CASE STUDIES
March 3, 2021
Hi NEARverse, we’d like to introduce you to the TessaB project solving a real world problem within the secondhand mobile phone industry with blockchain via the Glyde Marketplace.

Below is a Q&A with TessaB’s CEO, Flavio Mansi.

TessaB CEO Flavio Mansi
Background
Tell us a few things about your company. What inspired you to start it?

PCS Wireless founded TessaB in 2018 to enable a new, innovative ecosystem for pre-owned mobile devices and related services backed by a blockchain technology platform. I was part of the PCS Wireless team and previously served as President of its subsidiary IGWT Block. Today, as CEO of TessaB Corp. my goal is to leverage the TessaB blockchain platform we have built, as well as PCS Wireless’s proven track record in the secondary wireless market, to develop a more transparent and secure ecosystem for new and pre-owned phones and related services starting with our newly launched platform: The Glyde Marketplace (Glyde).

 

 

Who is on your team?

We have a robust and multi-faceted team. Please check them out on our website: https://www.tessab.com/the-team/

Have you received outside funding from notable investors or advisors?

Up until this point we have self-funded this project but expect to attract external capital in the next quarter or two, once the business units we are building on top of our TessaB blockchain platform continue gaining traction.

The Blockchain Factor
Why did you decide to build your project with blockchain technology?

TessaB is using a blockchain technology stack to solve the issues of trust and transparency. Blockchain provides a more transparent, and secure ecosystem for new and pre-owned phones and related services. The biggest barrier to purchasing a used phone is lack of confidence in the condition of the phone the buyer will receive. That is why we have selected blockchain and other innovative technologies to create a more efficient and trustworthy marketplace for used phones.

Enter NEAR
Why did you choose to build on NEAR?

We teamed up with NEAR Protocol for layer one of the blockchain to provide the foundation for a fairer marketplace for both individual consumers and businesses, one in which transactions are more transparent and, as a result, prices more accurately reflect the quality and value of the device.

With Glyde, business rules programmed into smart contracts to guide dispute mediation when the condition of a phone a buyer receives does not match the condition the seller posted to a phone listing, minimizing the need for subjective decision-making.

How did NEAR help you solve some of your key challenges?

The two biggest challenges with any main chain protocols for blockchain eg. Bitcoin, Ethereum right now is scalability and cost to record transactions. NEAR protocol helps a lot in both of those problems via the sharding concept. NEAR is 100 times faster than Ethereum and more than 1000 times cheaper. 

There were a few more factors we were looking for such as: 

Popularity: Number of dApps on the platform and developers in their community

Contract Complexity: How robust is their development infrastructure?

WASM compatibility: Web-Assembly was another important factor for reuse and compatibility with other languages in future development. The wallet is mobile & web compatible, custodial & non-custodial options. Since we had plans for our own Token for our ecosystem, the protocol needed to be compatible with various wallet solutions.

Cost of creating a user account: Since we had to create an account for every user, the cost of creating an account was also very important.

 NEAR was at the top of our selection matrix.

On the Personal Side
What is your motto / favorite quote?

“Parco en la adulación y abundante en la crítica” which roughly translates to “limited on adulation and extensive on criticism”.

What is your current state of mind?

We are delighted with the official launch of The Glyde Marketplace this past November with a mission of solving issues within the used mobile phone market. Right now, there is an average of seven middlemen between a customer who trades in a phone and its next owner. Our goal is to eliminate these inefficiencies and also instill trust between buyers and sellers.

Looking to the Future
What are your plans for the future? What’s the next big milestone you want to achieve?

Our goal is for Glyde to usher in the future of buying and selling used phones. We do this by harnessing new technologies to provide buyers and sellers a higher level of transparency and security, thereby allowing consumers to cut out the many industry middlemen who needlessly drive up prices. TessaB is disrupting a massive industry. The global market for used phones is huge, forecast to be worth $67 billion by 2023 according to William Stofega, Program Director, Mobile Device Technology and Trends at IDC and we hope to be a part of that market as the industry for second hand phones grows.

What is it that excites you the most about blockchain and the Open Web?

I’m most excited about Blockchain’s ability to revolutionize industries, societies, and create new communities. Blockchain enables programmable digital agreements (eliminating the need for human intermediaries), provides verifiable data, and facilitates a new level of trust and transparency to various industry markets. 

With our new Glyde marketplace, we’re combining the power of Blockchain with mobile diagnostics, machine learning, and artificial intelligence to revolutionize an industry plagued by lack of transparency and ambiguity. The fusion of these emerging technologies will cultivate a fully transparent, trustworthy peer-to-peer marketplace. Our diagnostics benefit consumers tremendously as we are harnessing the power of smart contracts to ensure transactions include verifiable data for both parties. This act of good faith via the blockchain, will create a historical record of each device any time diagnostics are run. 

This will allow for us to assess and predict the value and lifespan of devices more accurately, providing cost-efficiency and more transparency around what devices should really be bought and sold. Overall, our goal is to provide more value for a phone you are selling and more insights for a second-hand phone you may be looking to purchase.

TessaB and NEAR
Keep up to date with TessaB and The Glyde Marketplace on our socials via LinkedIn and don’t forget our Twitter.

NEAR invites you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people who are excited for the future of the Open Web. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter or following us on our Twitter for the latest news on NEAR.
NEAR, MetaBUILD 2, and Brave Head to ETHDenver
COMMUNITY
February 15, 2022
NEAR will be at ETHDenver, as will our MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon, and the Brave browser. The mission: support the global community of developers in building a multi-bridge, multi-chain world! 

The NEAR community, in partnership with Brave, will give attendees at ETHDenver, the world’s largest and longest-running Ethereum event, the chance to take part in MetaBUILD to reimagine gaming on the world’s biggest crypto browser. 

Brave currently has over 54 million monthly active users and recently launched the Brave Wallet, a browser-native crypto wallet. The team is challenging ETHDenver and MetaBUILD hackers to formulate new ways of issuing game skins for the simple, yet addictive, Dino game, available on the Brave browser. Hackers have the choice to either use one of NEAR’s ecosystem’s NFT platforms or develop their own smart contract to complete the task. 

For this MetaBUILD 2 challenge, Brave is putting up a bounty of $20,000 $BAT. This $BAT Match is just one of many fun and creative MetaBUILD 2 challenges driving applicant demand. Both MetaBUILD and ETHDenver empower the global developer community to build leading decentralized Web3 technologies, so we encourage hackers to submit their projects to both hackathons.

When MetaBUILD 2 launched on December 22, 2021, there were 300 participants. To inspire and reward MetaBUILD 2 hackers, we announced $1,000,000 in prize money across 35 sponsor challenges to be awarded to winning projects and development teams—from building decentralized storage and game development to NFT marketplaces and more!

As of today, there are over 3,500 applications—all taking advantage of NEAR’s easy-to-build infrastructure, and bringing their own unique ideas and skills to the task of building with NEAR and the cross-chain Open Web and Metaverse. 

To satisfy hackathon applicant demand, we’re extending MetaBUILD 2 until February 21st, which coincides with the last day of ETHDenver. That means you’ve got more time to submit your ideas for NEAR, the Open Web, or the Metaverse.

More MetaBUILD Hacking at ETHDenver Means More Cross-Chain Collabs
For the Open Web to be fully realized, cross-chain collaborations are absolutely vital. With blockchain platforms working as allies, the future is bright and anything is possible. 

Most crucially, users and developers will be able to move assets, projects, and experiences without friction back and forth across blockchain platforms. By collaborating, tools and products like atomic swaps will preserve privacy across blockchains, instead of exposing identities in transit. 

More upsides to collaboration between NEAR, Ethereum, and other blockchains include efficiency gains in areas like transaction speeds, security, and sustainability.

In other words, cross-chain collaboration will help expand and supercharge decentralized app ecosystems, changing the Internet as we know it—for the better. 

Reimagine Gaming, DeFi, and NFTs for Cross-Chain Future
NEAR is designed to be simple to use, no matter what ecosystem you’re coming from. This simplicity also makes it an ideal platform for cross-chain collaboration projects. 

For MetaBUILD, participants can use Rust, Web Assembly, or other familiar programming languages to build DeFi, Web3, Gaming, Digital Art/Collectibles, as well as infrastructure apps and tools. You can even migrate an existing Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) app to the NEAR ecosystem. 

Gaming will be a big focus for the NEAR ecosystem in 2022. After the successful rollout of sharding last year—and an aggressive roadmap designed to increase speed, scalability, and security this year—the gaming ecosystem has flourished. 

With some 30 gaming titles either launched or due to launch in the coming months, it’s never been a better time to jump into the space. And what better way of taking part in NEAR’s gaming ecosystem than by entering NEAR and Brave’s $BAT Match?

Or maybe you want to build an NFT marketplace? Aurora, an Ethereum scaling solution on NEAR, is challenging MetaBUILD 2 participants to hack together an NFT marketplace on its platform. Aurora has experienced massive growth since launching in May 2021, which makes this one of the most popular MetaBUILD challenges. Migrate your ETH project onto NEAR using Aurora and the Rainbow Bridge.

NFT marketplaces Paras and Mintbase are also offering NFT challenges. And lastly, but not leastly, there are opportunities for hackers to build solutions for blockchain oracles, governance, or even for The Graph’s explorer.  

Check out the full list of MetaBUILD 2 sponsor challenges and get hacking for a cross-chain future!

You can visit NEAR and Brave at ETHDenver during the main conference at the Sports Castle (Shill Zone, Floor 2, Booth P5). Also, don’t miss talks by Sampson, Senior Developer Relations Specialist at Brave, and Luke Mulks, VP of Business Operations at Brave, at the NEAR Lounge, located on the 3rd floor of the Jonas Bros Building on February 15-17th during BUILD week. Talks will also be livestreamed. 
NEAR at NVIDIA GTC 2024: A Recap of Illia’s Appearance
COMMUNITY
March 25, 2024
At NVIDIA GTC 2024––the flagship conference of the AI hardware supercompany in San Jose, California––the spotlight was on the intersection of AI, blockchain, and the next era of open web innovation. Among the distinguished speakers was Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol, who contributed his insights into how AI models will evolve and how blockchain and token economies can play key roles. Polosukhin is the only blockchain industry founder to speak at the NVIDIA event. 

The “Transforming AI” panel was hosted by Jensen Huang, CEO and co-founder of NVIDIA. Appearing on the panel were all but one of  the co-authors of the landmark 2017 research paper “Attention is All You Need,” which introduced the Transformer architecture that revolutionized natural language processing. That lineup of coauthors has gone on to work on projects such as OpenAI, Inceptive, and Essential AI. 

The group’s conversation explored the practical applications of blockchain technology, with Illia touching on programmable money and its impact on both the current and future states of digital economies. By addressing the challenges and opportunities presented by the convergence of AI and blockchain, Illia offered a grounded perspective on the potential for these technologies to facilitate a more decentralized and efficient open web. 

Illia’s  insights also highlighted NEAR’s commitment to leveraging Web3 technologies  for broader adoption and innovation across a range of future tech use cases. Jensen himself noted that he thinks “NEAR is very cool.” 

From Accelerated Computing to AI and the Blockchain
Jensen kicked off the panel by providing context around the evolution of computing power and the potential of generative AI as the next industrial revolution. After a round of introductions, Illia dove into the beginnings of his research at Google and the unique challenges that brought AI to the forefront during that time.

“The team and I were working on simple question answering. You’d go to Google, you ask a question, and it should give you an answer,” Illia recounted. “But Google has very low latency requirements, so if you want to ship actual models that read search results, like tons of documents, you need something that can process that quickly. And models at the time just couldn’t do that.”

After publishing the paper and leaving Google to explore new opportunities, Illia first worked on NEAR as an AI startup, then pivoted when he and co-founder Alex Skidanov recognized an opportunity in the blockchain space they first encountered as users. They recognized a clear need in the space back in 2018: to make blockchain technology accessible and intuitive for everyday use. Illia discussed with the panel how that realization led him to the concept of programmable money, and subsequently built NEAR Protocol to address blockchain scalability and usability challenges, creating a shift towards a more user-friendly open web economy.

The Genesis of NEAR and Programmable Money 
Illia further discussed how his shift from pure AI research to Web3 was driven by the concept of programmable money, not just for cross-border payments but for a range of powerful use cases. This was a direct response to the challenges of coordinating on complex networks and the increasing demand for scalable blockchain solutions. The result is a platform that can handle large transaction volumes without compromising speed or security.

“NEAR has the most users in the world in the blockchain space,” Illia explained. “We’re talking about multiple millions of daily users who don’t even know they’re using blockchain. But they’re actually interfacing with programmable money and programmable value. And now we’re bringing back some of those AI tools to generate more data.”

He then highlighted the need for a shift in how creators are rewarded in an emerging age of generative AI, suggesting that the century-old copyright system must evolve. With artists and creators now leveraging tools like Midjourney and OpenAI for everything from visual art to storytelling, the panel agreed that copyright laws will need an overhaul sooner than later.

Integrating AI for Fairer User and Creator Economies
With the generative age already underway, Illia further unpacked how NEAR will be central to this new AI-enabled creator economy. 

“The way we’re rewarding creators right now is broken,” Illia continued. “And the only way to fix that is to leverage programmable money, programmable value, and blockchain. You need the basic primitive of programmable money because it’s what allows users and groups to coordinate people at scale.”

Illia’s vision extends to building a version of the open web where programmable value underpins a positive feedback loop, fostering a novel economy enriched by equitable participation. For example, he noted that NEAR is exploring ways for users to contribute their own data, which can help improve AI models. These initiatives demonstrate how tomorrow’s AI economy could benefit both creators and users by allowing more participation and collaboration underpinned by Web3 infrastructure and incentives. 

“I strongly believe that the way we’re going to make progress towards software eating the world to machine learning is eating software,” Illia argued. “And the most direct way is to teach machines to code, so you’re able to actually generate software and transform everyone’s access.”

Throughout his appearance at NVIDIA GTC 2024, Illia underscored NEAR’s pivotal role in bridging the gap between the open web, programmable money, and AI. By advocating for a reimagined copyright framework and more equitable creator compensation models, Illia presented an accessible and compelling vision for NEAR at the forefront of tomorrow’s user and creator centric AI economy. While this was just a brief glimpse of the emerging AI+Web3 ecosystem on NEAR, it was met with a wave of excitement from the NEAR community and served as a reminder for the whole Web3 space about Illia’s and NEAR’s early roots in the world of AI.


NEAR Tasks Launches AI Marketplace on NEAR to Revolutionize the Future of Work
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 16, 2023
The convergence of AI and Web3 captured the tech industry’s imagination in 2023 — but few ideas have actually become a working reality. An exciting exception is NEAR Tasks, a global gigs marketplace poised to reshape AI training while leveraging the power of NEAR blockchain. Officially launched at NEARCON 2023 with its first product beta launching this week, NEAR Tasks is a self-service platform where anyone can easily list and complete AI requests, setting a new standard for quality data labeling.

Unlocking the Power of AI and Web3
NEAR Tasks envisions a future where AI and Web3 technologies complement each other, fostering an ecosystem driven by transparency and efficiency. This symbiotic relationship aims to streamline task matching, review processes, and manage data quality more effectively at scale.

Implemented on the NEAR Protocol, NEAR Tasks utilizes on-chain tasker IDs, smart contracts for automated payments, and $NEAR transactions for global payments with minimal fees. This ensures accountability, motivates high-quality outcomes, and addresses the challenge of underpaid workers in the AI sector.

NEAR Tasks in a Nutshell
In the age of AI, despite popular narratives about LLMs replacing a range of human jobs, human intelligence actually becomes even more important: as models get more complex, they need human expertise for fine-tuning models and increasing subject matter specialization. This user-friendly platform seamlessly connects task listing, work review, and crypto rewards, propelling AI model training into a new era through direct human feedback loops and a flexible self-service marketplace.

For business clients and AI builders, NEAR Tasks provides a self-service, plug-and-play solution, liberating users from the constraints of costly managed service options. Blockchain integration on NEAR facilitates efficient data labeling by verified human experts, who can build reputation and get paid in real time for contributing quality work to the platform. 

For taskers, the NEAR Tasks marketplace offers a transparent path to monetizing their skills and knowledge, unlocking new revenue streams in the ever-evolving AI labor frontier, and changing the future of digital work. There are more than a billion participants in the global on-demand gig economy today, showing the need for more opportunities as well as greater specialization for those with particular training or expertise. With more reliable identity verification for accounts, faster work review, and the ability to pay taskers with crypto, taskers can get paid more reliably and work at the pace they wish — making the gig economy more supportive to specialized workers. 

In his introduction to NEAR Tasks at NEARCON in Lisbon, Senior Engineer Momo Araki pointed out: “There’s an interdependence for the system to work properly. You have to reform the central inspection principle wielded by task providers, and maintain sybil-resistance so workers can’t spoof the platform. It’s loosely analogous to a ‘proof-of-work’ model, where work performed well also translates to earning reputation, which leads to accessing further opportunities.” Incorporating more trust into a tasks marketplace in this way also produces better results for the AI builders and businesses trying to refine their models. 

A Fair and Transparent Platform for AI Training
In an AI landscape where autonomy often overshadows human involvement, NEAR Tasks recognizes the vital role of a global workforce responsible for data labeling and validation. The platform introduces on-chain digital IDs for taskers, ensuring transparency and accountability.

Transactions exclusively conducted in $NEAR guarantee rapid global payments with minimal fees, directly confronting the issue of underpaid AI workers in what is known in the industry as “AI sweatshops.”

“Human intelligence forms the base of artificial intelligence, and it’s time we give AI tasks the recognition they deserve as legitimate jobs in the AI economy,” says Catherine Yushina, Head of Operations at NEAR Tasks.

AI Is NEAR
At NEARCON 2023, NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin — an AI researcher himself and co-creator of transformers, the architecture powering today’s major LLMs like ChatGPT — named AI as one of the core verticals for the NEAR ecosystem heading into 2024. From transforming governance and business operations with AI agents to provable provenance for data and content, as well as novel marketplaces like NEAR Tasks and hybrid human-AI working environments, we’re at the very beginning of an exciting revolution that will change the ways we work, collaborate, transact, research, and govern ourselves. More news is coming before the end of 2023 to position NEAR as the leader at the intersection of AI and Web3. 

Join the AI + Blockchain Movement
If you want to be part of this transformative AI and blockchain convergence shaping the human intelligence market, sign up for the NEAR Tasks waitlist — currently at more than 48,000 applicants. The marketplace opens for public access in Q1 of 2024. You can also reach out to the team directly to request entry into the current Beta. Drop them an email at [email protected] to express your interest by Monday, November 20.

For more information about NEAR Tasks, please visit https://neartasks.ai/.

Follow along on social media:

Twitter: https://twitter.com/near_tasks 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/98907399 

NEARCON ‘23 Day 2 Roundup: Web3’s Women Shine and Innovations Unfold
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 9, 2023
As the Lisbon sun dipped below the horizon, NEARCON ‘23’s second day came to a vibrant conclusion. The day was marked by a rich tapestry of dialogue and discovery, highlighting the profound impact of women in Web3 and the AI is NEAR track. The energy was palpable as attendees navigated through a day steeped in collaborative exploration. 

Key announcements from Pyth Network and breakthroughs in identity solutions with idOS and Tangem Wallet underscored a day where the future of blockchain was not just imagined, but actively constructed.

Remember, you can stay connected with other attendees through Calimero Chat — a private, decentralized comms built on the NEAR blockchain.

*Note: There is no bag check or cloak room at any NEARCON venue. 

Female open web trailblazers kick start Day Two
Day 2 of NEARCON ‘23’s celebrated diversity and technical milestones, highlighting transformative initiatives and strategic expansions within the ecosystem.

The “Women in Web3” brunch at NEARCON ‘23 spotlighted the vital contributions of women in blockchain, focusing on fostering inclusivity. Leaders in the space convened to discuss strategies for empowering women, emphasizing the NEAR Foundation’s commitment to diversity with initiatives like the Women in Web3 Changemakers list.

Ecosystem highlights take center stage
FractalID unveils idOS on NEAR

FractalID is redefining Web3 identity with the launch of idOS on NEAR, providing users with unparalleled control over their digital identity. This pivotal development promises to enhance user sovereignty and compliance in dApp interactions, bolstering NEAR’s position as a leader in decentralized identity solutions.

Pyth Network

NEAR’s integration with the Pyth Network brings a wealth of real-time price feeds to its testnet, significantly enhancing the toolkit available to developers. This move, a year after Pyth’s Aurora integration, demonstrates NEAR’s dedication to equipping its platform with the data and tools required for leading-edge dApp development.

Octopus Network restaking and IBC bridge

As part of its Octopus 2.0 program, Octopus Network — built on NEAR Protocol — unveils $NEAR restaking for Ottochain launch in December. This initiative enhances validators’ rewards and bolsters appchain security, incentivizing $NEAR’s wider use and fostering equilibrium in the NEAR ecosystem.

Octopus Network also introduced Adaptive IBC, bridging Cosmos and NEAR ecosystems for enhanced interoperability with Secret Network poised to be the first adopter. 

Tangem Cold Wallet integrates NEAR Protocol

The Tangem Wallet, renowned for its Swiss-made security and simplicity, now fully supports the NEAR Protocol, ensuring effortless self-custody for NEAR holders. This collaboration embodies NEAR’s commitment to making Web3 accessible, offering users a secure and straightforward way to manage their digital assets with confidence.

Jump DeFi broadens DeFi accessibility on NEAR

Jump DeFi has extended its decentralized finance platform to Telos, making strides toward widespread DeFi adoption. By integrating with NEAR Protocol, Jump DeFi simplifies user and developer engagement, streamlining access to a previously fragmented DeFi ecosystem with its all-in-one solution for core financial activities.

MotoDEX accelerates on NEAR Blockchain

MotoDEX, integrating with the NEAR blockchain, offers a thrilling motorcycle racing game directly on app stores. It caters to 13,000 daily players, blending the thrill of racing with the perks of blockchain tech. The game’s seamless Web3 integration ensures accessibility for all, fueling a new era of blockchain gaming.

GeekPay rides high on NEAR Blockchain

GeekPay also announced impressive growth with a $1M turnover, a quarter of which was on NEAR. GeekPay simplifies payroll for businesses like theirs. Its recent accolade includes a nod from the Tenity Incubation Program, affirming GeekPay’s pivotal role in the gig economy and future of work.

DevHub’s bold new rebrand

DevHub unveiled a fresh brand identity to resonate with its evolution into a thriving NEAR developer ecosystem. This rebranding is more than a visual facelift — it represents DevHub’s commitment to fostering innovation and supporting builders at every stage. Dive into the enhanced experience at neardevhub.org and join the ranks shaping the Open Web with NEAR.

Key sessions and panels
SK Telecom ports into the metaverse

Sehyeon Oh from SK Telecom detailed the Korean company’s strategic foray into the open web, highlighting their collaboration with NEAR Foundation and plans for a Web3 wallet and NFT marketplace. SKT’s approach aims to fuse digital and tangible realms, from art NFTs to metaverse developments while community building with education and blockchain integration.

FractalID unveils idOS on NEAR 

Julian Leitloff from Fractal ID and Johan Salaï Bondioli of Pagoda introduced the idOS at NEARCON ‘23, a leap forward in Web3 identity, granting users control over their digital presence. This initiative is set to redefine the interaction landscape for dApp users, solidifying NEAR’s leadership in decentralized identity solutions.

NEAR’s evolution from Nightshade to Starsight

Bowen Wang from Pagoda offered a compelling overview of NEAR Protocol’s evolution, highlighting the advances in stateless validation and zero-knowledge technologies. Wang teased the upcoming Starsight project, promising a leap forward in blockchain’s usability, scalability, and decentralization in 2024.

Illia Polosukhin on AI’s Role in NEAR’s Future

NEAR co-founder and CEO Illia Polosukhin dove into the future of AI and its integration with blockchain. He emphasized AI’s potential to drive work and governance on NEAR, forecasting AI agents that execute tasks autonomously, enhancing efficiency within decentralized systems and contributing to the evolution of DAOs into truly autonomous organizations.

Side events and networking
As Day Two winds down, don’t forget to head on over to the Community HQ for the Movers and Shakers Happy Hour, sponsored by Glass and Moonbounce. Just a few steps down the cobbled Lisbon streets from HackerHQ, Movers and Shakers will be a great chance to sip some cocktails and learn about Glass, an innovative app bringing the adult beverage closer to brand enthusiasts on the NEAR blockchain.

Looking ahead to Day Three
Day Three of NEARCON ‘23 is your final opportunity to dive into immersive open web sessions starting at 10:45 AM, after doors open at 9 AM. The day will highlight the Hackathon’s brightest innovations with judging from 12:00 PM and the NEAR Pitch Competition and Hackathon Awards Ceremony from 2:35 PM to 3:50 PM on the Main Stage, showcasing top project pitches.

NEARCON ‘23 then goes out with a massive bang at the Closing Party at the LX Factory, sponsored by The Littles. The bash begins at 9:00 PM, and will be a chance for attendees to unwind, network, and reflect on everything that was NEARCON ‘23. Not to mention dancing the night away in one of Lisbon’s most happening party venues.

We hope you had a fantastic Day Two at NEARCON ‘23, with the best yet to come. Enjoy another buzzing evening in Lisbon and see you on Day Three!


The NEAR Foundation’s Vision for the Future
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 24, 2022
The past several weeks have been challenging for many within crypto. This downturn is also very different from the previous 2018/2019 crypto winter as it is occurring against the backdrop of surging inflation, rising interest rates and global instability.

Crypto isn’t immune to these shocks, but the crypto ecosystem is more robust than it was three years ago. There is more capital than ever flowing into projects, an increasing amount of top talent, and a maturing of the infrastructure that provides a better foundation for more projects to flourish.

The NEAR Foundation has always focused on diligent and conservative treasury management, and as an ecosystem, we are therefore well-positioned to weather this storm. There has never been a better time to build on NEAR. A bear market is not a time to pause, it is a time to build, invest and organize to succeed – it is a time to put our best foot forward and execute at pace. 

To better serve and address the needs of the growing NEAR ecosystem we have made a couple of structural changes to the NEAR Foundation organization, which are described below. 

NEAR Foundation Mission
The mission of the Foundation is to foster the conditions by which an ecosystem can flourish, assisting and aiding others to reimagine business, creativity, and community in their own ways. The Foundation exists to help inspire and empower people to join the ecosystem, by acting as a trusted party and gateway into this new world. It is one part of a larger puzzle. 

To help visualize how the Foundation interacts with the NEAR ecosystem we have developed a new mental model which is the basis for our internal OKRs, priority settings, and team priorities. 

NEAR Foundation is a centralized organization championing decentralization as part of a decentralized ecosystem. Over time, NEAR Foundation’s role will continue to evolve as new funds emerge via ecosystem and regional funds, and as the community takes on more and more.

NEAR Foundation Changes
To best foster the conditions needed for the NEAR Ecosystem to continue its tremendous growth, we are reorganizing our teams alongside our key principles:

Adopting a functionally aligned organizational structure across the Foundation, operating in a more streamlined way.
Combining all our efforts on growing and supporting our community under one “Community Team”, to continuously focus and help address the needs of our growing ecosystem.
Creating a product/engineering organization under new Product and Engineering leadership, which will enable us not only to re-purpose our website (the key entry point to the NEAR ecosystem) but also to have more perspective on products built in the ecosystem and be able to address technical queries for our partners more effectively.
To achieve this, we have created 16 new open positions for roles that help the Foundation achieve its mission. If you want to join us, or our ecosystem please check out –  https://careers.near.org/jobs 

As part of this reorganization, 17 team members will be leaving the NEAR Foundation. Most of these will move their skills into the NEAR ecosystem, joining one of the 600+ projects building the future of the web. Others will join NEAR hub and other community-led projects. Seeing friends and colleagues leave an organization is never easy. We are extremely grateful for their immense contribution, continued support, and participation in the NEAR ecosystem. 

This is not a downsize, but a reorganization to better serve the needs of the ecosystem. We are very well positioned to succeed in the bear market. NEAR Foundation has always focused on diligent and conservative treasury management, and as an ecosystem we are therefore well-positioned to weather the storm. No better time to build on NEAR!

We are confident that being well organized is the first step in that direction and we are confident that our new structure is setting us up for success.


NEAR Foundation Launches NEAR DA to Offer Secure, Cost-Effective Data Availability for ETH Rollups and Ethereum Developers
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 8, 2023
NEAR Foundation just announced the rollout of the NEAR Data Availability (NEAR DA) layer. Part of the NEAR Open Web Stack, NEAR DA is a groundbreaking innovation that offers robust, cost-efficient data availability for ETH rollups and Ethereum developers.

NEAR DA is set to launch with a number of first users, including Madara by StarkNet, Caldera, Fluent, Vistara, Dymension RollApps, and Movement Labs. 

Let’s take a brief look at NEAR DA to explore why it’s such an exciting and significant development for NEAR, Ethereum, and the larger effort to build a truly open web. 

NEAR DA — paving the way for modular blockchain development
With NEAR DA, ETH rollups and Ethereum developers get cost-effective, reliable data availability. 100kB of calldata on NEAR will cost $0.0033 as of September 2023, while the same calldata on Ethereum L1 will run users  $26.22. That’s 8,000 times cheaper! 

NEAR DA will help developers reduce costs and enhance the reliability of their rollups, while keeping the security of Ethereum. High quality projects launching an app-chain or L2 will also be able to get NEAR DA support. 

Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol, and newly announced CEO of NEAR Foundation said: “Offering a data availability layer to Ethereum rollups highlights the versatility of NEAR’s tech while also helping founders from across Web3 deliver great products that bring us closer to mainstream adoption of the Open Web.”

“NEAR’s L1 has been live with 100% uptime for more than three years, so it can offer true reliability to projects looking for secure DA while also being cost-effective,” Polosukhin added. “NEAR provides great solutions to developers no matter which stack they’re building on and now that includes the Ethereum modular blockchain landscape.”

Expanding NEAR’s Open Web Stack 
By opening up its blockchain for data availability, NEAR Protocol is expanding its offerings to deliver a modular blockchain development framework. This will let Web3 developers and founders continue building on Ethereum while leveraging NEAR’s state-of-the-art tech for one part of the stack, depending on their requirements. 

NEAR DA expands the capabilities of NEAR’s Open Web Stack, a common entry point where developers and users alike can easily build, browse, and discover Web3 products and platforms. This includes FastAuth onboarding to an account in seconds with zero crypto or seed phrases required, as well as the ability to create decentralized frontends from a library of thousands of components. 

Developers and founders building on Ethereum rollups interested in using NEAR DA can visit near.org/data-availability to get started.
Astro Launches on NEAR To Supercharge DAO Communities
COMMUNITY
October 11, 2021
Astro, the platform for online communities to gather, vote, and govern has launched on NEAR. Astro is the next evolution of SputnikDAO, the hub for decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) operating on NEAR with a host of new features, more flexibility, and a friendly UI.   

If you’re a community looking to create, collaborate, and govern, Astro is the tool for you. 

What is Astro? 
Astro is a platform for On Chain Communities (OCC). OCC are groups of people that prove their membership and coordinate decisions through a series of smart contracts. Each vote is verified by the blockchain, and funds are distributed based on voting decisions.

With Astro, DAOs will be able to retain more autonomy and, importantly, cast the net further in regards to governance through increased flexibility and the introduction of governance tokens.

Curious to know more about Astro? We’re hosting an AMA on October 12, 2021 at 7 am PST / 10 am EST / 4pm CEST.  Register for the AMA and submit your questions to the Astro team. Find out more about it here.

What is a DAO?
A DAO is a business structure where control is spread out, across the team members instead of being centered around one authority figure. Think of a DAO as being a machine with one purpose, to carry out a set of instructions determined by pre-written smart contracts.

A community can adapt a DAO and program it according to its own goals. So the code can be used to create a set of rules, or a governance structure by which the community agrees to abide by. Tokens are used to help people vote on topics such as fund allocation.

The more a member contributes to a community, the more his/her/their vote can be increased. 

Why start a DAO?
Think of DAOs as a toolbox that allows anyone to create a business structure that is designed to be simple and flexible. As a result, DAOs come in all shapes and sizes. From flat to hierarchical, from open to anyone to members-only; you get to decide how you want to govern your community.

For example: 

Grants Giving  – Vote and collectively decide what people and projects to fund.
For businesses – Keep track of owners’ equity and elect managers to make day-to-day decisions. 
For investors – Pool funds and vote on strategy and transactions.
For clubs of any kind – Elect leaders and decide where to spend group funds.
Astro makes DAOs simple.
DAOs are quick to set up, global, customisable and transparent. Astro can help you create your own DAO in minutes. 
Music and Blockchain: The Future of Decentralized Streaming Music
COMMUNITY
April 22, 2022
As the decentralized economy expands, it’s no surprise that musicians are turning to the blockchain. NFTs, digital autonomous organizations (DAOs), Metaverse events, and more are transforming artistic visions into new and  immersive experiences. On NEAR, decentralized streaming music platforms will be one part of the future music industry landscape.

Community-driven instead of centralized like Spotify and YouTube, these platforms give artists more freedom to express themselves with built-in legal infrastructure support. But what does this decentralized streaming future look like for musicians?

Establishing better streaming rights for musicians
In a Web3 world, artists have more control over what they create. With decentralized streaming music, that will mean fewer intermediaries taking a cut of a musician’s revenue. 

“Artists who release through DAOrecords hold 100% of their IP—meaning that they can do anything they want with it,” says Jason “Vandal” Schadt, CEO at DAOrecords.

“We have acted primarily as a distributor, helping to facilitate the release of Audio NFTs through our storefronts across a variety of chains,” he adds. “What I find very exciting is that we’re able to minimize the friction and need for legal contracts through the use of automated royalty splits built into the smart contracts we deploy.”

DAOrecords has begun designing smart contracts with an approach similar to artists registering their songs officially, then sharing the revenue like they would with the performing rights societies that distribute royalties.

“As we do this, it’s important that we only work with the rights holders directly in order to ensure that there is no infringement happening,” says Vandal.

And if artists are part of DAO-based labels, like DAORecords, other interesting possibilities emerge with decentralized streaming. 

“The artists under the DAO label would actually own a slice of the label and have voting rights in where the [streaming] money goes,” says Amber Stoneman, CEO of Minting Music. “The label hasn’t ever been transparent, so blockchain is a way for that to happen on the ground level with producers and label owners.”

At its core, decentralization is about using smart contracts to create the platforms, tools, resources, and legal structures for art to flourish on its own terms. This vision inspired Stoneman to create Minting Music, which brings blockchain to the music industry in a practical way.

“I saw a lot of flaws in the platform transparency and gatekeeping that connects fans and artists,” says Stoneman. “After diving into NFTs, Web3 and crypto, I started to see how blockchain could solve a lot of music industry problems.”

One of Stoneman’s goals is to enable a world where fans can buy and trade music via NFTs to create long-term revenue for the artists.

“I see streaming being on-chain, payments being made to artists based on actual listeners and streams instead of the current Spotify model,” she says. “We see real royalty payments happening in real time.”

Bringing transparency to royalty splits
Clarian North, Founder of Tamago, a decentralized streaming music platform building on NEAR, also sees blockchain tackling royalty transparency. 

“Transparency is a big problem musicians and content creators are faced with when it comes to royalty payouts,” says North. “The digital age has made it exponentially harder for artists, managers, and labels to track every play and purchase.” 

For North, it’s clear how smart contracts can play a pivotal role in the streaming music future. Musicians will be able to track all transactions related to material in a transparent and immutable format. This will help to fairly balance and unblock the monetization flow back to content creators.  

Remix royalties will be no different. When a producer takes on a remix, North says, it creates a different perspective, audience, and sound than the original recording. Remixers generally earn a flat fee and occasionally get a royalty, although this is rare. The more hands original material goes through, the better chance it has to be consumed by larger audiences. But then tracking the royalties becomes more complex. Smart contracts could change this by simplifying royalty payments. 

“Having a network of data which is universally accessible and cannot be manipulated is therefore extremely beneficial for keeping exponential and viral pathways clean and unblocked in terms of making sure the content creators of the original material get their fair and transparent share,” he adds.

Strangeloop Studios, which just launched Spirit Bomb, a label for decentralized virtual artists, is also hopeful about royalty transparency. Ian Simon, Co-founder of Strangeloop Studios, believes that NFTs will be a key ingredient in decentralized streaming music.

“I think we’re still in the early stages of seeing all the ways that Web3 could disrupt some of the anachronistic practices of the music industry,” says Simon. “A lot of very smart people are focusing on royalty structures and overall transparency, and forcing a lot of obfuscated backroom deals out into the open. The NFT space assumes co-ownership, which is a philosophical sea change in acknowledging the value of all creative contributors, and one I’m very excited about.”

Dismantling the artist-fan divide
When music isn’t completely dictated by centralized forces, like major labels, mainstream media, and Web2 streaming platforms, artists are free to pursue the aesthetics that matter to them. This gives birth to genres and cultures like Hip Hop, Techno, Indie Rock, and more. As such, it forms the basis for collaborations, remix culture, and continued creativity into new media and forms.

This thinking led to the inception of Endlesss.fm, a music software platform with NEAR integration. Endless enables artists and audiences to connect in a more spontaneous and visceral way.

“Endlesss transforms media from a product we consume alone into a journey we undertake together with those we resonate with,” says Tim Shaw, also known as Tim Exile, who is a passionate, lifelong musician. “Immediately this will provide a more lean-forward engaged experience for fans.”

“In the long run, this will dismantle the artist-fan divide,” he adds. “We will all become participants in communities. Some will be more involved in cultural production than others. But, we won’t think of it as a metaphorical barrier between the crowd and the artists.”

Web3 will also enable musicians (and other creatives) to own and control the way their work shows up online. 

“Web3 inverts the relationship between platforms and individuals,” says Exile. “In Web2, we all rent our relationship with platforms. Platforms can throw us out at any point and we lose everything with no recourse. In Web3, platforms rent their relationship with us sovereign digital individuals. If platforms cease to add value to our digital lives, we can take our identities elsewhere.”

Ultimately, Exile envisions a future in which Web2 and Web3 co-exist.


“The streaming model works very well in a Web2 world where you pay for convenient access to media,” he says. “In Web3, the value proposition for media is about association. Which media do you choose to put your time, effort, and money into creating, collecting and trading? What does the aggregation of all the media you’ve associated with say about you? How can you experience the visceral sense of who you are by experiencing the things you’ve decided to align yourself with?”

Supporting an expansive and authentic music industry
The pandemic and other global crises have triggered a shift in the way humans engage with the physical world. This transition inspired the formation of Muti Collective, a Portugal-based community that helps artists blend the digital and physical worlds. Co-founded by Tabea and smokedfalmon, but operated collectively as a DAO, one of the group’s objectives is to incentivize a cultural movement in rural Portugal.

“Given that most venues closed during the pandemic, it was the main resource to promote arts in the digital space,” says smokedfalmon. “It brought up a lot of questions regarding streaming revenues and how little the creators are actually paid on [Web2] streaming platforms.”

By using Web3 spaces like Cryptovoxels and NEARhub, people can actually interact with the event while seeing the stream. DAOs give the group a better handle over collective finances, transparency, and democracy within the community. 

“People are generally skeptical in the beginning but curious, and need 1:1 onboarding to really get into it,” says Tabea. “Once they receive support for one of their projects, they engage a lot more.”

“Also, the system of a DAO is not very common yet in the groups we are working with,” she adds. “But, once they understand how it works, they get more engaged. They discover more of the ecosystem and create their own path.”

The road ahead
Music in Web3 is all about creating, experimenting, and pushing boundaries. It’s also about pursuing long-term visions and continually manifesting the infrastructure to get there. With NEAR, musicians have a super fast, low-cost, and secure platform to get them to where they want to be.  

What artists and musicians need most is the power of ownership, which creates choice and enables self expression. Beyond decentralized streaming music’s freedom, it empowers creators with the tools they need to release their works on their terms. 

Blockchain, and DAOs in particular, facilitate an ecosystem experience in which parties can collaborate fairly and specify terms. Participants ranging from artists to record labels, fans, buyers, and secondary buyers are all welcome in this space.

Decentralization has the potential to bring the music industry into a more enhanced state. The future of music on the blockchain is already in motion.

Check out the complete series on Blockchain Music:

Part 1: Music and Blockchain: Introducing the Future of Sound

Part 2: Music and Blockchain: Building a Record Label on the Blockchain
Part 3: Music and Blockchain: The Rise of the New Musician
Part 4: Music and Blockchain: The Future of Decentralized Streaming Music
NEAR Foundation Transparency Report: Q2 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 10, 2023
Hello, NEAR World! Welcome to NEAR Foundation’s Transparency Report. Published quarterly, the Transparency Report explores the NEAR ecosystem’s progress, as well as the latest technology news and updates from the NEAR ecosystem. 

The Q2 edition of the Transparency report features a NEAR Foundation Treasury report and a variety of exciting updates on the recently announced Blockchain Operating System (BOS), the NEAR ecosystem’s thriving projects, and NEAR Foundation’s Web2.5 strategy. You’ll also get the latest on NEAR Horizon Accelerator, NDC, NEAR’s Web2 → Web3 partnerships, and more. 

NEAR Foundation Treasury Update 
At the end of Q2 2023, NEAR Foundation’s treasury totaled $0.9b, which included $349M fiat reserves, 315M NEAR ($435M at a closing price of $1.38) and $90M in Loans and Investments. Total treasury holdings declined $0.2B in the quarter, led by a fall in the price of NEAR to $1.38 from $1.99. Net $16M fiat and 1m NEAR was deployed in Q2.

The NEAR Foundation has continued to adopt a highly responsible approach to treasury management in order to minimize the risk of loss in a turbulent market, while continuing capital deployment to fulfill its mission. Exposure to non-NEAR assets therefore has been limited, with fiat reserves held in highly rated Swiss bank accounts. 

NEAR Foundation continues to maintain sufficient resources and runway to thrive in a multi-year market downturn, deploying capital in a targeted and responsible manner to help the NEAR ecosystem thrive and remain vibrant. As a result, the NEAR Foundation is in an extremely strong position to continue to support the ongoing growth and development of the NEAR Protocol and ecosystem.

A recap of NEAR’s go-forward strategy 
Since the Q1 transparency report, the industry has faced some significant headwinds, such as the SEC action against Binance and Coinbase. (You can see our response to the SEC action here.) Amidst a turbulent market, the NEAR Foundation’s vision and mission remain the same: we believe in building a better web — the open web — and our mission is to foster the adoption of the open web by supporting the self-sustainable growth of a decentralized NEAR ecosystem.

As mentioned in the Q1 transparency report, to effectively move closer towards our collective vision, the NEAR Foundation has focused on 3 core strategies:

NEAR is the Blockchain Operating System (BOS): the open web is only possible with an open operating system, which only NEAR can deliver.
NEAR is a thriving, decentralized ecosystem: the open web will lead to a safer, fairer, and censorship-resistant digital world.
NEAR is where Web2 goes to become Web3: the open web will be the next generation of the internet, and will only reach mainstream if users from Web2 are migrated from Web3.
To achieve these strategies, NEAR Foundation is focused on two different approaches to bringing more users to NEAR. It begins with NEAR Foundation’s top-down approach to partnerships led by a world-class business development team. By working with major applications and brands with substantial, established communities, NEAR Foundation is partnering on real use cases that drive engagement on the BOS. High-traction use-cases for partnerships have primarily been around loyalty — especially across sports, gaming and retail. 

Q2 saw a flurry of high profile announcements, including MarbleX, Shemaroo, Alibaba Cloud, Cosmose, and Skoda. There has also been a focus on bringing projects from other Web3 ecosystems onto the BOS, and many are leveraging the decentralized frontend component of BOS, including brands like Galxe.

Q2 has also seen NEAR Foundation’s bottom-up, grassroots approach continue in full swing. Decentralization is a core principle of the Foundation —  it is key to the success of NEAR, as it creates a more fair and inclusive ecosystem for devs and end users alike, and continues to empower more activity in the wider community. The Foundation has supported the successful transition of the Marketing & Creatives DAO into the NDC, becoming fully autonomous entities funded by the NDC itself. The Foundation has also been supporting the NDC to be fully autonomous with its own treasury, and to take control of key community ceremonies like the Town Hall and Ecosystem Roundtable. NEAR Horizon is also a key part of the bottom-up approach, providing projects with much needed acceleration support. This quarter, Horizon launched with a bang at Consensus, and has started supporting its first batch of projects. NEAR Horizon has partnered with some top backers and service providers to ensure projects have the right resources to grow.

Although not directly responsible for it, NEAR Foundation believes the overall development of the Blockchain Operating System itself — a common layer for discovering and creating open web experiences, across all blockchains — is key to enabling the ecosystem to thrive. The BOS is built on top of NEAR’s scalable, cost-effective, sustainable Layer 1. The layer 1 itself also has an ambitious roadmap to continue its groundbreaking development.

The Foundation has been working closely with Pagoda and DevHub to ensure that the BOS supports the entire ecosystem and puts the builder at the heart of everything it does.

Q2 Ecosystem OKR performance 
Throughout Q2, the ecosystem has experienced several areas of growth towards its OKRs. While the ecosystem met many of its goals, there is always work to be done. 

Our north star metric, Monthly Active Accounts, was at 1.1M at the end of Q2, 100k shy of the 1.2M target. We’ve seen continued strong traction from SWEAT, who are still the largest partner on NEAR in terms of MAA. The slight miss to the goal can mainly be attributed to longer than anticipated lead times in partnerships going from announcement to mainnet.

The TL;DR on ecosystem OKR performance this quarter (see below for more detailed analysis): 

NEAR is the BOS
Successful launch and migration of near.org on to the BOS — this was done at Consensus with a huge activation. 
Sustained growth in the NEARProtocol Twitter following, hitting 1.9M followers — slightly short of the 2.2M target.
A 3X increase in our Share of Voice to 15%, a huge uplift versus the target, driven primarily by the BOS launch and key partnership announcements.
16,000 active accounts on near.org since its launch in April.
NEAR is a thriving decentralized ecosystem
Marketing & Creatives DAO now fully transitioned to the NDC.
NDC v1 Governance is about to be rolled out after hitting its key milestone of over 1,000 humans now participating.
NPS in the community remains around 30, despite a target to grow to 40. 
NEAR Horizon launched successfully its MVP with over 110 projects now on the platform
External capital raising for projects on NEAR remains a challenge, driven mainly by the current climate. 
NEAR is where web2 comes to become web3
42 new strategic partners have been signed in Q2, including the announcement of 7 flagship deals and over 15 tier 2 deals. The challenge here remains the lag between announcement and launch on mainnet. 
OKR1: NEAR is the BOS 
NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System is key to the creation and maintenance of a thriving ecosystem. A common layer for creating and discovering open web experiences, the BOS is designed to be used across all blockchains — all in one browser. In this way, the entire open web can become integrated and truly composable on a global level. 

The BOS is an operating system designed specifically for the open web — built atop the layer 1 NEAR Protocol. Usable by any blockchain or dApp, the BOS allows the effortless creation and distribution of innovative decentralized apps across any blockchain. On the BOS, developers can build quickly using existing components in languages they already know, like Javascript, as well as leverage its social network to find, connect, and build communities on NEAR and beyond.

The NEAR Protocol itself, the Layer 1, is a core part of the BOS tech stack and continues to be developed as the scalable, cost-effective, and simple backend to any Web3 tech stack.
After a strong soft launch for the BOS at ETHDenver, in Q2 we saw the BOS launch fully at Consensus, transforming near.org into a full BOS gateway — meaning that the entire site is now on chain, utilizing the full benefit of the BOS tech stack. The launch was incredibly well received, seeing a solid amount of coverage across media outlets such as Bloomberg, CoinMarketCap and Coindesk, as well as a strong increase in SOV across social platforms. 

Near.org now has over 6,800 components from around 100 active developers, along with over 12,000 accounts. What this means is that NEAR now has over 1% of existing community members on the near.org gateway, and we continue to see members of the ecosystem onboarding to BOS, contributing and using applications. Aside from near.org component builders, from the latest Electric Capital report, there are over 500 active developers within the NEAR ecosystem.

The NEAR DevHub continues to make progress evolving how developers interact with the BOS, through the launch of bounties, and support across ETHGlobal hackathon events such as ETHPrague and ETHWaterloo. NEAR DevHub is a decentralized community platform, built on the BOS, for NEAR developers to contribute to the ecosystem and stay informed about the latest news. It enables anyone to share ideas, match solutions, and access technical support and funding.

NEAR Foundation also announced NEARCON 2023, which is set to return to Lisbon this November, the planning of which is already building on last year’s huge success. The nearcon.org site is now live, marking the first fully decentralized event site built on the BOS. Nearcon.org makes it possible to  buy your tickets in NEAR or Fiat, and see all the upcoming information for this year’s event.

Although the NEARProtocol handle will come close to 2.2M followers in Q2, there has been a conscious strategy to slow down this acquisition to focus more on engagement based activity beyond just Twitter. Our conviction — based on data analytics — is that we now have a large % of high quality, relevant followers who can keep up-to-date with NEAR news and the ecosystem.

The NEARProtocol Twitter handle also saw a huge uplift in Share of Voice, achieving over 15% in June — a key metric for measuring awareness and engagement of NEAR in relation to our competitor set. This measure takes the top 1,000 influencers in Web3 and measures how many times NEAR is mentioned versus other Web3 ecosystems. This has been primarily driven by the BOS narrative itself, but also from some of the high profile partnership announcements and events.

OKR2: NEAR is a thriving decentralized Ecosystem 
NEAR Foundation continues to make great progress in its mandate to support the decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem since the last transparency report. The NEAR Foundation remains deeply committed to supporting the decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem. By decentralizing, NEAR ensures that power lies with the community upon which the vibrant ecosystem thrives, and gives the worldwide community a voice in the future of blockchain and Web3. 

NEAR Digital Collective (NDC)
Since the last transparency report the NDC, along with support from the Foundation, has made excellent progress with the NDC being open to funding requests, the launch of “I Am Human” for voting integrity, and purpose trusts set up for Marketing and Creatives DAOs, which will allow for greater autonomy of the DAO community. We talk about these initiatives in more detail below.

The NDC — the largest decentralization project in the NEAR ecosystem to date — is bringing together users, developers, and creators throughout the ecosystem with its innovative framework of governance. By developing this framework, it allows any member of the network to have a say in how NEAR is run by combining transparency, collective decision making, evolving governance models, and self-determination in a completely new way. 

As part of its V1 Governance and in a partnership with Fractal, the NDC launched the I Am Human initiative, a “proof-of-personhood” where participants can get verified through a quick and simple process and mint a “Soul Bound Token”. This will facilitate integrity and fairness of the on-chain voting system, ensuring that each person can only vote once. By mid-June, the I Am Human Protocol verified over  1,000 people — a remarkable achievement for the NDC and decentralization. 

In Q1, the NDC launched the Community Treasury with a budget of 5.7 million NEAR to support the development of the NEAR ecosystem. Following this launch, the Governance Working Group (GWG) and Legal Working Group (LWG) worked together on a set of terms and conditions to foster transparency and accountability of contributors requesting funding from the NDC. The process is now live. 

The NEAR Community Treasury wallet is viewable here.

Moving forward, the NDC will focus on increasing engagement and creating an even bigger impact on the community. It currently has a “Run for Office” call for contributors who want to participate in its governance and leadership. This is a great opportunity for motivated individuals to help build the open web we all believe in. 

The NEAR Foundation is working with the GWG (Governance Working Group) and LWG (Legal Working Group) to provide educational tools to members of the community who are thinking of building (or scaling their existing projects) on the NEAR protocol. Keep an eye out for announcements!

In the meantime, to learn more about the NDC and to participate in the projects and discussions, please see here. 

Grassroots DAO funding activity
The three core grassroots DAOs remain the key source of funding for anyone looking to build in the NEAR ecosystem. Confirming the NEAR Foundation efforts to decentralize operations and promote autonomy of the ecosystem, CreativesDAO now has set up its own community treasury via a Guernsey purpose trust similar to the NDC, and started allocating funding again. The DAO is now able to request funding directly to the NDC, making the process community-owned in its entirety.  

Marketing DAO followed suit and its community treasury has recently been set up. Find more details in the announcement here. In addition to the trust, the MarketingDAO Charter has now been published, outlining its governance rules. 

DevHub has also started the process of establishing its community treasury and we will have more developments in the near future. In the meantime, NEAR Foundation and DevHub worked together on automated flow for funding requests which greatly reduced completion time.

NEAR Foundation recognises the exceptional work of the NDC and core DAOs. The Foundation will continue to support decentralization initiatives and the growth and development of the NEAR community.

NEAR Horizon  
NEAR Horizon is an early stage accelerator, coordinated by the NEAR Foundation, that’s revolutionizing how founders and builders find support in Web3. The mission of NEAR Horizon is to attract high-quality founders to build on NEAR and support their growth by facilitating connections with the right resources all in one place. The NEAR Horizon strategy consists of three main components: the Horizon dApp, partnerships, and easily accessible content resources.

Horizon dApp
Horizon has seen significant growth since launching April 26th, 2023. Over 160 projects and 30 contributors have produced 1,000+ transactions. The newly added service providers (sourced from the initial RFP in Q1) all bring a unique blend of talent, expertise, and innovative solutions, contributing to the diverse and vibrant ecosystem of NEAR Horizon. 
Another exciting feature of Horizon is the Learn section. Founders at all stages can take advantage of a curated list of resources to best help where they need it the most, such as: Business Fundamentals, Growth and Marketing, Recruiting and Legal, and Technical areas.


Horizon Partnerships
For founders looking for additional support and guidance throughout their Horizon journey, the platform will also be equipped with programs facilitated through a NEAR Foundation partner, providing mentorship, business resources, and a direct line to startup capital. 

These programs are available through a wide range of industry leading groups including Antler, Brinc, FabricX, CV Labs, Blockchain Founders Group, Decasonic and Dragonfly amongst others. Regardless of the path founders choose to take, NEAR Horizon will provide them with the support they need when they need it most to accelerate the growth of their Web3 projects built on NEAR.

Our educational program partners design hackathons, fellowships, and educational content for students, early-career engineers, and current founders. We are excited to be partnered with Encode Club and Major League Hacking, who have both kicked off their various initiatives with NEAR Horizon in Q2. 

In addition to working with a few chain-agnostic acceleration programs with a goal of bringing new projects to the growing NEAR ecosystem, we’ve also partnered with Outlier Ventures and Startup Wiseguys to facilitate a NEAR-specific acceleration program. The first Outlier Ventures cohort is set to kick off in July, and we look forward to bringing an update to the Q3 report. 

We are also partnering with Web3 communities, DAOs, and incubators to provide workshops and resources to current and aspiring founders such as the NYC demo day in partnership with Banyan Collective, and another exciting Grants Demo Day hosted by Mintbase at the end of June. 

Horizon was proud to host Pitch and Networking events at both Consensus and Collision, including fantastic speakers from Decasonic, Fabric, Press Start Capital and others. Over 100 projects applied to pitch and more than 500 people registered to attend and network. 
The NEAR Horizon team is continuing to expand our community through founder experiences, engaging over 100 founders to-date. The Horizon team hosts weekly office hours, AMAs with service providers, and product demo days for founders to source live feedback on their products. To stay current on all the activities of NEAR Horizon follow us on NEAR.social @nearhorizon.near or on twitter.

OKR3: Web2 → Web3 
The NEAR Foundation BD team exceeded its goal in H1 2023 by bringing 74 partners to the NEAR blockchain versus a goal of 27. The 48 partnerships closed in Q2 also marked a significant increase from the 26 in Q1. The majority of these partners were considering other chains yet chose NEAR due to its focus on bridging Web2 with Web3, usability, conservative approach, and strong partner support.

Number of partnerships	Actual	Goal (set in Jan ‘23 based on prior year #)
Q1	26	10
Q2	48	17
Total	74	27
In Q1 and Q2, BD had a targeted approach to focus on five main areas that we believe are uniquely unlocked by Web3: loyalty & rewards, social and the creator economy, gaming and the metaverse, sustainability, and infrastructure. The NEAR Foundation continues to partner with startups, as well as enterprises and governments. 16 of the 74 closed partnerships were with enterprises or governments. 

Category	# of Partnerships (Q1 + Q2)
Loyalty & rewards	19
Social/creator economy	12
Gaming/metaverse	12
Sustainability	6
Infrastructure	18
Other	7
Loyalty and rewards: Loyalty  is a focus for us because loyalty in Web2 is broken. From sports teams to  movie studios there is a common problem. They lack a direct relationship with their customers. Simultaneously, consumers and fans are seeking new ways to demonstrate and be rewarded for their patronage. Web3 helps loyalty programs shift to open ecosystems, enables brands to build direct relationships with customers, and fosters composability among loyalty programs. 

Notable partnerships:

Cosmose AI — Loyalty-based shopping app that enables users to buy with crypto in order to lower transaction fees for both merchants and consumers. Cosmose represents a practical and real-world use case with initial traction in Singapore.
Santo Spirit — Tequila brand of Sammy Hagar and Guy Fieri is launching a loyalty program on NEAR that includes virtual tastings, autographed collectibles and mystery NFTs for patrons.
Tokenproof — Tokenproof powers custom, token-gated experiences for some of the most notable Web3 communities and the biggest Web2 brands via gated Shopify storefronts and real world interactive experiences.
Creator economy: The NEAR Foundation has partnered with a number of entrepreneurs in the creator economy. These builders are using Web3 to give creators greater ownership and control, new monetization and royalty channels, and novel ways to interact with their community. Similarly, we are excited about new blockchain-based decentralized social networks and closed 2 partners who are building exclusively on NEAR (not yet announced). 

Notable Partnerships:

SLiC Images  — A digital rights-management platform for independent photographers and videographers to license and monetize their content founded and led by former NBA all-star Baron Davis and built on Mintbase technology.
ARterra — ARterra is  leveling up fan engagement tools for game developers, individual creators, and brands via its Web3-based battle pass, quest, and duel systems that integrate seamlessly with Web2 platforms such as Discord, Youtube Gaming, and Twitch, as well as Web3 games.
Djooky — Djooky is a music streaming and discovery tool that combines an online music competition with a marketplace. Musicians  can participate directly in the marketplace or get discovered by voting fans who earn rewards for being talent scouts  during the quarterly competitions. 
Gaming and Metaverse: This is another focus area since Web3 unlocks new forms of digital ownership and in-game economies. In gaming, while not exclusively focused on Korea, we are spending considerable effort there given Korea’s history as a pioneer in gaming monetization, and Korean studios’ deep expertise in Web3, especially compared to other regions.

Notable partnerships: 

Netmarble — One of the largest game publishers worldwide is bringing a suite of Web3 games to NEAR.
Vortex — Web3 subsidiary of INVEN, the “Reddit of Korea” and largest game media community in Korea with over 7M monthly active users is building exclusively on NEAR.
PipeFlare — A provider of 17 casual Web3 games is transitioning from another chain to integrate exclusively with NEAR.
Sustainability: The NEAR Foundation continues to back entrepreneurs and governments trying to solve environmental problems by leveraging the blockchain. Web3 can support supply chain transparency, verification and proof of green initiatives, and carbon credit systems. 

Notable partnerships:

SankalpTaru — One of the largest sustainability NGOs in India is leveraging the blockchain to bring accountability and transparency to afforestation activities. They have planted over 3.5 million trees and supported  over 30,000 farmers. 
Raigarh District Administration — This district in India launched a blockchain based monitoring system for tracking industrial corporate social responsibility afforestation activities. In addition to the government participation, over 50 industry participants are involved in the initiative. 
Flow Carbon— One of the pioneering climate technology companies, they are working towards bringing carbon credits onto the blockchain. Carbon offsetting will become more accessible and transparent to major institutional players through leveraging the power of blockchain technology.
Infrastructure: This is an important focus for NEAR Foundation partnerships as it serves as the building blocks for new use cases. We aim to foster an environment that empowers builders through innovative infrastructure that helps projects better prototype and develop, communicate, and scale.

Alibaba Cloud — Alibaba Cloud is collaborating with NEAR Foundation to provide Remote Procedure Call (RPC) as a service to NEAR ecosystem projects. In addition, Alibaba Cloud will focus on multi-chain data indexing which helps drive the adoption of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) through supporting interoperability across different blockchains. 
Urbit — An operating system designed to run peer-to-peer apps. Combined with the BOS, we hope to build the world’s first fully decentralized development environment.
Fractal — One of the leading Web3 native identity infrastructure providers, Fractal will build important decentralized identity frameworks for the BOS.
Supporting Existing Partners
During Q2, the BD team also made significant progress in implementing the NEAR Foundation’s product strategy centered around the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). Workshops targeting both new potential partners and existing partners were organized, aiming to educate on the new BOS product strategy. These workshops were attended by 80% of our partners and have helped build awareness and understanding in the ecosystem about the potential of BOS in the market.

Our existing partners have played a crucial role in driving our success in Q2. By collaborating closely with them and supporting their initiatives, we have achieved significant milestones and further strengthened our ecosystem.

Identifying successes:

SWEAT — The number 1 free app in over 60 countries which rewards users daily steps with a new-generation currency, launched a highly successful USDT campaign that acquired over 300K monthly active users (MAUs). Plans for supporting SWEAT’s launch in the US during Q3/Q4 are in place. Additionally, the testing and launch of Web3 new products, such as the Swap Feature and NFT game, are currently underway, aimed at further engaging new users.
Cosmose AI — A $500M global platform that predicts and influences how people shop, secured approval from smartphone manufacturers to launch the Web3 version of their Lockscreen product, scheduled for Q4 2023. This is a significant milestone as Cosmose AI continues to apply web3 principles to further advance the AI-driven retail ecosystem. Next up in Q3 will be the launch of their cash back product (Kai-Kai) on mainnet.
PlayEmber — Amobile game studio built on NEAR and backed by Big Brain Holdings, Shima Capital and others, received approval from both App Store and Google Play for the launch of the new version of their app, responsible for  51K MAUs, doubling their pre-app store listing numbers.
Mintbase — A leading NFT marketplace built on NEAR celebrated the impact of their grantees on the ecosystem, highlighting their progress and achievements supported by the Mintbase Grants Program. 13 projects have been successfully nurtured through this program: NiftyRent, Namesky, QSTN, Explorins,Ailand, PWX, WallID Roketo, Gorilla Shops, Cootoo, SLIC Images, Puzzle Task, and Everything.
Geographical Focus
The NEAR Foundation has taken an international approach to BD focusing on North America, EMEA, and Asia, specifically Korea, India, and Singapore. While the environment in North America remains uncertain for many entrepreneurs and enterprises due to ongoing concerns around regulation, we are continuing to see strong interest in Web3 in EMEA and Asia. BD will continue to prioritize these regions in 2023.

Location	# of Partnerships (Q1 + Q2)
North America	29
EMEA	14
Asia	29
Other	2
We have always had an international footprint, and continue to foster communities around the world to thrive. NEAR community hubs generate local awareness and onboard new users, as well as support projects building on NEAR. Led by local entrepreneurs, and operating as independent legal entities, these hubs are crucial in helping NEAR Foundation reach its missions and objectives around the world. 

NEAR Foundation has been supporting, through grants, two types of Regional Hub models — community hubs and partnership hubs. The goal of the community regional hubs is to build local community presence in regions, specifically targeted towards builders and those who want to get involved in NEAR’s decentralized ecosystem, as well as to build brand awareness in those regions. Partnership hubs have the specific mandate to forge deep relationships with partners in the region to build on the BOS.

Starting with partnership hubs, NEAR Foundation made significant strides in expanding its presence in India and Korea during Q2, securing pivotal deals and paving the way for further geographic expansion.

Korea
We achieved significant progress in Korea with strategic wins, strengthening our position in what we consider a leading blockchain market. In Q1/ Q2, we closed 9 partnerships focused on gaming, entertainment and infrastructure to increase NEAR’s awareness and traction for chain adoption. Gaming is especially interesting in Korea due to the large audience, established game studios and blockchain expertise. Being a key part of the strategy, gaming  has strong blockchain use cases with digital ownership, in-game economies and monetization models. We partnered with top Korean gaming industry leaders such as Netmarble’s MARBLEX, the blockchain-powered subsidiary of the well-established developer and  publisher of mobile games, and Vortex Gaming, the Web3 subsidiary of Korea’s largest gaming community INVEN, to drive future growth. 

In addition to gaming, we announced an exciting business partnership with Mirae Asset, a subsidiary of Asia’s largest financial group, Mirae Asset Global (headquartered in South Korea), to develop Web3 technology. Xangle, a leading South Korean crypto data and research platform, has added metrics for NEAR Protocol and the Sweat Economy to make information on the NEAR ecosystem more accessible in the region. With the deals signed, partnership announcements, community activations and development activities, we are very excited for the future opportunities in Korea. 

India
In India, we have achieved noteworthy progress on multiple fronts. In Q1/ Q2, we closed 12 partnerships focused on government, sustainability, entertainment, and the infrastructure space. Industry leading partnerships such as Skoda and Shemaroo, will act as lighthouse partnerships for the region. In addition to the enterprise use cases, NEAR enabled sustainability and impact projects with SankalpTaru and District administration Raigarh (State of Chhattisgarh) to bring transparency, traceability, and accountability in afforestation initiatives. We continue to engage with the developer community in India and raise awareness about BOS. We achieved substantial media coverage in India, further consolidating the brand awareness. In addition, we are engaging think tanks and government bodies by conducting/participating in Web3 workshops and brainstorming sessions to bridge the awareness gap.

Building stronger connections with the NEAR ecosystem 
After efforts in generating and implementing feedback from the NEAR community, NEAR Foundation’s Community Team has kicked off several initiatives that have been driving engagement, including: 

Actively leveraging NEAR platforms such as the Official NEAR Discord, Telegram, and NEARProtocol Twitter, the NEAR Foundation Community Team has been running regular Twitter Spaces and AMAs with many NEAR projects to continuously surface the many amazing things being built on NEAR throughout the wider network.
NEAR Foundation’s commitment to transparency and stronger community connections continues through bi-weekly live Town Halls. These sessions, which take place every other Wednesday at 3:00 pm UTC on the NEARProtocol YouTube channel, provide an open platform for the NEAR Foundation leadership team to share progress on OKRs and for the core teams to deliver updates. NEAR ecosystem project teams and NEAR Foundation partners also have the opportunity to showcase what they’re actively building on NEAR. In the endeavor to further engage and boost community interaction, a Town Hall Hub has recently been developed on the BOS. This portal aims to serve as an open forum for all discussions, recommendations, and dialogues surrounding the Town Halls. It’s not just about receiving updates — it’s also about giving the NEAR community the power to shape and participate in these conversations. 
To boost active community participation and drive engagement, the Foundation’s Community Team has been running weekly Quiz Night events on the NEAR Protocol Telegram. This initiative is designed to not only drive community engagement but also to create a cohesive and informed community, deeply aligned with NEAR Foundation’s mission and vision. We’ve put together a concise report on the recent success and feedback this initiative has received, which you can check out here.
NEAR in the press 
Q2 saw a number of top news stories from NEAR’s thriving ecosystem. NEAR was covered in over 300 articles across the globe in Q2, including over 20 tier 1 stories in outlets including  TechCrunch,  CoinDesk, Forbes  Journal du Coin , Entrepreneur India,  Business Insider Africa, Yahoo Finance  Yahoo Japan, Korea Herald, New Economy Japan  and Bloomberg. NEAR also appeared in over 40  tier 2 publications in outlets including the Block,  City AM, Blockworks, and Cointelegraph.

Headlines included BOS going live, the launch of Horizon, and the Women in Web3 Changemakers list, as well as coverage from many of our partnership announcements, ecosystem hubs, and progress from many of NEAR Protocol’s ecosystem projects. Stories that made an impact included Cosmose AI partnering with NEAR protocol, collaborations with Alibaba, Skoda India, Vortex Gaming and Mirae Asset in Korea, and the launch of SailGP’s Web3 driven app The Dock, as well as Santos Spirit Tequila’s NFT.

To find out more about NEAR Foundation’s and the NEAR ecosystem’s press coverage you can check out the  monthly roundups below:

NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for April

NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for May

NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for June

Ecosystem Highlights 
NEAR Ecosystem on BOS
With the announcement and launch of the Blockchain Operating system earlier this year, we have seen a splash of developments from projects both in and outside of the NEAR ecosystem building on BOS and deploying widgets and front ends. In Q2 we have seen both existing and new NEAR projects building on BOS, including Harmonic Guild, Flipside, Satori, Pikespeak, Genadrop, NEARWEEK, and others. These amazing teams are building components ranging from audio/video distribution platforms, data & analytics dashboard tools, no-code multi-chain NFT creation & minting tools, DAO tools, and news & media. We also saw an incredible example of BOS’s interoperability with Zavodil’s composable multi-chain app that seamlessly integrates with any connected blockchain wallet.
Also in Q2, Galxe — a leading Web3 community building platform with over 10 million unique users to date — also deployed a component on BOS with the aim of bringing a seamless onboarding experience for SPACE ID’s referral program, “Voyage Season 2”. This integration makes Galxe the first major Web3 partner utilizing NEAR’s BOS for its offerings, simplifying the process for users to register .bnb domains and participate in the SPACE ID Voyage program through near.org.

NEAR’s BOS promotes collaboration among builders by allowing them to fork and build reusable on-chain widgets, deploy decentralized front ends, as well as discover other dApps, components, and communities — all on one platform. This makes it easier for builders to create multi-chain experiences, extending NEAR beyond just being another Layer 1 network and transforming it into a decentralized OS that fosters collaboration across ecosystems.

NEAR Ecosystem Project Updates
In Q2, the NEAR ecosystem continued to see projects pushing large developments as well as launching on NEAR in verticals ranging from DeFi and payment solutions, to gaming and infrastructure. A few examples follow. 

ChangeNOW, a leading cryptocurrency payment gateway, stepped up their game by incorporating NEAR, opening up new avenues for businesses to transact using NEAR tokens. Meanwhile, WOOFi DEX made its debut into on-chain derivatives on NEAR, rolling out the beta version of its perpetual futures powered by Orderly Network. The platform offers users the convenience of centralized exchanges coupled with the self-custody benefits of decentralized exchanges, shaping the future of on-chain derivatives trading.

Further diversifying NEAR’s ecosystem, Namesky launched on NEAR Mainnet in Q2. Leveraging NEAR Protocol’s default feature of unique named wallets, Namesky acts as a marketplace for buying and selling NEAR accounts as NFTs using audited contracts, akin to having Ethereum Name Service (ENS) on NEAR.

Expanding NEAR’s cross-chain relationships, Duel Network (originally a BSC project) expanded their presence on NEAR with the launch of Duel Soccer. This integration not only broadens NEAR’s ecosystem but also elevates Duel Network’s visibility across multiple chains.

In the realm of security/trust, Gatenox, a specialized Web3 KYC platform, integrated with NEAR, making its KYC services available to NEAR-based projects, offering an extra layer of trust and safety.

Overall, although there were no projects on NEAR fundraising in Q2, the NEAR ecosystem continued to see growth, innovation, and cross-chain integration.

AI, ChatGPT, and NEAR

As interest in AI and ChatGPT continues to grow, we are observing increasingly innovative developments bridging between ChatGPT and NEAR. Among the pioneers working on these developments is Peter Salomonson, a seasoned NEAR builder. Salomonson has integrated NEAR with ChatGPT to create a unique widget that enables users to generate, play, and download their own custom drum beats. 

The Mintbase team is also adding to NEAR x ChatGPT developments by developing a versatile plugin for NEAR smart contracts and widgets. Mintbase’s integration — developed by team member Luis — is capable of writing, compiling, and deploying contracts, and it can also generate user interfaces based on the contracts’ ABI as well as deploy these interfaces as BOS widgets. 

These developments are a testament to the continued growth, innovation, and vibrancy of the NEAR ecosystem. They also underscore the origin story of NEAR and its deeply rooted connection with AI. 

Before co-founding NEAR Protocol, Illia Polosukhin had a rich history in the AI space, having worked on Google’s TensorFlow. When Illia and Alex Skidanov founded NEAR in 2017, it was originally conceived as a machine learning platform. In fact, at the time it was known as Near.ai. This background has informed NEAR’s belief in the intersection of blockchain and AI, and the potential for these technologies to work in harmony to create decentralized, intelligent systems that can drive innovation and empower individuals.

For more insights on this topic, here are some recent articles featuring Illia and NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament, in which they discuss the intersection of AI and blockchain and the potential of these technologies to revolutionize various industries:

“Illia Polosukhin: Building Near’s Blockchain, Embedding AI”: This article discusses Illia Polosukhin’s journey to blockchain success and his work on NEAR’s blockchain, including the integration of AI.
“Blockchain and AI: at the crossroads”: In this article, Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, discusses the intersection of blockchain and AI, and how these technologies can be used to create a more equitable and open digital world.
A Look Ahead 
Looking ahead to Q3, the NEAR Foundation is continuing its current strategic focus. 

In addition, we have worked closely with the ecosystem to paint a more complete picture of what a fully functioning Web3 ecosystem should look like, which is more of a multi pronged approach:

The overarching framework is made up of three models:

Participants Model — the Participants are the entities that take action within the ecosystem. This looks at three core audiences: Developers, Businesses, and Accounts. Developers build applications for Businesses, who in turn create experiences for the Accounts who interact with them. Each audience is important to monitor as each is dependent on each other.
Monetization Model — the Monetization model is the lifeblood of the ecosystem, much like an economy is for a country. Monitoring how capital flows in and out, as well as the transaction volume within the ecosystem, is important to show how prosperous and active participants are within the economy.
Public Goods Model — the Public Goods model underpins the framework, making it like the roads and power supply for a city. At the core is the protocol itself, but it also looks at validators and the overall health of the network.
NEAR Foundation has primarily focused on the Participants Model to date, but it’s important we have observability and an aligned ecosystem approach to all metrics within all of these three models. To support this, the NEAR Foundation has helped create the Champions Sync — a collective of key ecosystem participants who are responsible for rallying the ecosystem around areas of the model that need attention. This is still in the early stages, and more about the model and action taken will be circulated shortly.

NEAR Foundation will continue to focus on unique use cases that drive the adoption of Web3 technology. Our commitment to maintaining a high bar for partnerships and a disciplined approach to capital allocation will remain the cornerstone of our success. The Foundation will also continue in its bottom up support, being at the service of the community to help empower participants to get involved. We will also continue to support projects to thrive through the NEAR Horizon program. 

As NEAR continues to drive forward into uncertain market conditions, it’s more important than ever to prioritize the things that matter and stay true to our vision to create the Open Web. 

This NEAR Foundation Transparency Report (the “Report“) is provided for informational purposes only. The information contained herein is provided on an “as is” basis, and the NEAR Foundation makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of the information contained in this Report.

The NEAR Foundation, its affiliates, directors, employees, and agents, shall not be held liable for any errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the information provided herein. NEAR Foundation reserves the right to update, modify, or amend any information contained in this Report without prior notice. This Report is not intended to provide financial, investment, legal, tax, or any other professional advice. Readers should consult with their own professional advisors before making any decisions based on the information contained in this Report.
Refer-and-Earn 2022 Q2 Report
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 12, 2022
NEAR’s ever-growing and engaged community is one of the ecosystem’s greatest strengths. Remember the NEAR Foundation Grants team’s Refer-and-Earn bonus scheme? A number of NEAR community members participated in Refer-and-Earn in early 2022, resulting in grants for dozens of exciting projects currently building on the NEAR ecosystem.  

To demonstrate the power of the NEAR community, the Grants team just published its Refer-and-Earn Q2 2022 Report. Let’s take a look at the qualified projects currently building without limits that emerged from the Grants team’s Refer-and-Earn program. 

Refer-and-Earn: Q2 Qualified Projects
The NEAR ecosystem is the beneficiary of a number of your recommendations and referrals. A total of 26 quality projects emerged from Refer-and-Earn—each aligning with the NEAR Foundation’s Grants program objectives. 

In no particular order, here are the Q2 2022 qualified projects: 

Ref finance 
Roco Finance 
Lazy Learning
Noft Games 
Atocha Protocol 
Bast.gg
Omnia Defi
KwikTrust
BlockHealth 
Marnotaur
Exxaverse 
Mambo Heritage
NEAR mates 
NFT Design Work 
The Gorilla Squad
Pawn Protocol 
PureFi
Solely NFT 
Kyoto protocol 
Deepwaters
Bumper Finance 
Dojo Finance 
Loozr 
bit brawl
Blockperks
Boundless Pay
The Grants team has reached out to all Refer-and-Earn referrers. Thanks to your help and support, the Grants team is able to support innovative projects such as those listed above. 

Start referring projects to NEAR Grants today
The Grants team would like to extend an invite to those yet to participate in the Refer-and-Earn program. To get started, head over to the NEAR Grants Program Referral Initiative page. 

Please note that only projects receiving a grant directly from NEAR Foundation will be eligible for the Refer-and-Earn bonus. Only the first recorded referral will be paid out—duplicate records will not be considered. NEAR Foundation no longer supports DeFi-related projects. 

All referrals are calculated at the end of each quarter and only eligible referrals will be contacted. 

Please contact [email protected] for additional information or inquiries.


NEAR Foundation Unlocks Web3 B2B Solutions with SK Inc. C&C Strategic Partnership
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 20, 2023
The NEAR Foundation is joining forces with SK Inc. C&C, a global leader in the IT industry, to help Web3 businesses expand in the region. 

The collaboration brings together two teams committed to helping companies find the right Web3 tools to make their business grow. NEAR Foundation and SK Inc. C&C agree to carry out joint research, share and support partners in both ecosystems and collaborate on marketing and raising awareness. 

“I am very pleased to collaborate with a leading company in South Korea’s IT industry like SK Inc.C&C. This partnership is expected to serve as a significant milestone, leading to the emergence of various use cases and the creation of a user-centric ecosystem,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. 

The partnership with SK Inc. C&C will leverage the NEAR Foundation’s network to strengthen its technological and business growth, connecting with SK Inc. C&C’s local corporate clients to accelerate the recruitment of outstanding companies in the Korean market.

“Various attempts are being made to discover Web3 services connected with public blockchains across various industries, including public, financial, manufacturing, and distribution sectors. Starting with NEAR Protocol, we will strengthen our collaboration with already market-validated public blockchain companies and embark on expanding the Web3 service ecosystem,” says Cheol Choi, Head of the Web3 and Convergence Group at SK Inc.C&C 

SK Inc. C&C provides consulting services, enterprise resource planning (ERP) solutions, intelligent transportation systems (ITSs), geographic information systems (GISs), billing solutions as well as other systems and solutions used in telecommunications, financial, logistics, energy and chemical industries. The company is active in the United States, China, the Middle East and other markets in addition to South Korea. 

Asia in focus
South Korea has become a major hub for the NEAR Community. Since launching in November of 2022, NEAR Korea Hub has hit a number of major milestones in the Korean Web3 industry. 

The Hub has significantly contributed to the expansion of the Web3 ecosystem over the past 6 months by forming partnerships with leading domestic technology companies, offering generous developer support, and forging long-term relationships with college blockchain clubs. 

The partnership with SK Inc. C&C forms part of a wider strategy to help support Asia’s role in mainstream adoption of Web3 and Open Web technologies. The NEAR Foundation’s support of ecosystems across Asia culminated in its recent NEAR APAC conference that took place in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. 
“NEAR Protocol is actively making moves to conquer the Korean market. As evidenced by the management team’s visit to Korea during Korea Blockchain Week (KBW), where discussions were held with leading companies in various industries, we expect significant results initially led by SK Inc. C&C,” says Scott Lee, General Manager, NEAR Korea. 
Filecoin Launches Collaboration with NEAR to Accelerate the Growth of the Web3 Stack
COMMUNITY
August 10, 2021
In July 2021, Textile launched the Filecoin-NEAR bridge, taking the first step to provide simple, permissionless storage for smart contracts on NEAR — a sharded layer 1 blockchain protocol for building user-friendly decentralized applications. The novel storage bridge creates a seamless way for NEAR applications, smart contracts, or NFTs to integrate Filecoin-based storage of any form of data. In addition, to encourage utilisation of the bridge, storage costs on Filecoin via the bridge have been and will be provided free.

Today we are excited to deepen the collaboration between the Filecoin ecosystem and the NEAR ecosystem with the launch of a $300,000 joint grants program designed to support developers interested in exploring new opportunities at the intersection of these two protocols. Upon receiving a grant, projects will also gain access to the global collectives of both NEAR and Filecoin to support product development and user growth.

About NEAR: A Developer Friendly, Sharded, Proof-of-Stake Public Blockchain
NEAR is a decentralized application platform built to bridge the users of today’s Internet to the blockchain-based web of the future. NEAR is a PoS layer 1 blockchain platform, built with UX and DevX in mind. NEAR’s novel sharding mechanism, Nightshade, parallelizes computation on chain and automatically increases capacity when needed, resulting in theoretically infinite scalability.

NEAR Protocol is built by a world-class team of engineers and entrepreneurs, who have won two ICPC world championships and medals, Google Code Jam and TopCoder. NEAR is backed by A16Z, Pantera Capital, Electric Capital, Coinbase Ventures, Blockchain.com, and Baidu Ventures. To learn more about NEAR, please visit their official website or follow their Twitter and Telegram.

More than just Storage: Filecoin offers a unique Web3 Building Block
Filecoin is a decentralized peer-to-peer data network, allowing anyone to store or validate data within its network. Under the hood, all Filecoin nodes use the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS), one of the most widely-used data distribution protocols for Web3.

The Filecoin Network offers the following features that make it attractive for both Web2 and Web3 use cases and developers.

Content Addressable Data — Filecoin is a decentralized storage network built on content addressable data at the heart of Web3.
Verifiable Storage with Proofs — The Filecoin blockchain verifies that all data is continuously stored on the network every 24 hours; proof of this can be bridged to other smart contract systems.
Decentralized Storage at Scale — The Filecoin network is onboarding more than 1PiB of storage capacity every hour.
Flexible Storage Options — A global network of storage providers, each offering different features and local optimizations, allow for maximal composability and emergence.
Filecoin brings a unique building block to the Web3 ecosystem and the intersection of NEAR and Filecoin promises new applications and use cases. You can learn more about business opportunities on Filecoin in this video.

Joint Grants for Filecoin and NEAR Application Development
Filecoin and NEAR are offering a $300,000 grant pool to developers. Any project that demonstrates or enables integrations between Filecoin and NEAR are encouraged to apply and all eligible projects will receive funding towards further development.

Here are some potential areas of exploration:

Decentralized Storage SDK + Demonstration app: An SDK for NEAR users to seamlessly employ Filecoin’s decentralized storage network, along with a demonstration application. The accompanying demonstration application should showcase the functionality of the SDK, as well as serve as a reference architecture for other NEAR developers.
Database APIs: Database overlays to make interacting with raw storage on Filecoin easier and more efficient.
New Web3 Applications:
Novel Web3 interactions such as Data Bounties, DataDAOs, Verifiable Computation, Perpetual Storage, Layer 2 Protocols, etc., leveraging verifiable storage on Filecoin, smart contract abilities on NEAR, and data bridge built by Textile.
DeFi applications that interact with textile.io or other reputation indexes for Filecoin storage providers. These applications can also utilize the Aurora Bridge.
If you would like to participate in the Filecoin-NEAR Grant Program, please apply here by October 31, 2021 for consideration. Submissions will be reviewed on a rolling basis, so early submissions are encouraged.
NEAR partners with Ceramic on cross-chain identity and dynamic data storage
COMMUNITY
May 28, 2021
Partnership with Ceramic brings streaming data and cross-chain identity protocols to NEAR developers.
Developers building on NEAR Protocol now have a powerful way to manage user identities and dynamic off-chain data in their applications. Ceramic, the decentralized network for data stream processing, now supports NEAR wallets.

NEAR is currently hosting an Open Web Community Hackathon with a prize for integrating IDX profiles on Ceramic with a NEAR Sputnik DAO. To participate, check out the hackathon prize!

Blockchain, Data, & Identity: a full stack for Web3 developers
NEAR offers developers the most dev-friendly and end-user accessible infrastructure for building decentralized apps and services. Great Web3 and DeFi apps require more than a smart contract platform. They also need sophisticated, scalable, and dependable data management infrastructure for app builders using smart contracts. Ceramic provides advanced database-like features such as mutability, version control, access control, and programmable logic. It is also the foundation for IDX, Web3’s first cross-chain identity model.

With the integration of Ceramic on NEAR Protocol, developers on NEAR can: 

Build data-rich user experiences and social features on fully decentralized tech
Give users cloud-like backup, sync, and recovery without running a centralized server
Publish content on the open web without the need to anchor IPFS hashes on-chain
Leverage interoperable profiles, social graphs and reputations across the Web3 ecosystem
Ceramic now supports NEAR wallets
Starting today, developers building applications on NEAR can easily add support for Ceramic and IDX in their application with a seamless user experience. NEAR key pairs have been added as a supported signing and authentication method for Ceramic’s data streams, so users can now perform transactions on Ceramic with their existing NEAR wallets. 

Developers have already started combining NEAR and Ceramic to create new applications such as NEAR Personas, which links a NEAR wallet to a DID.


About Ceramic: Decentralized data streams
Ceramic provides developers with database-like functionality for storing all kinds of dynamic, mutable content. This finally gives developers a Web3 native way to add critical features like rich identities (profiles, reputation, social graphs), user-generated content (posts, interactions), dynamic application-data, and much more.

Ceramic’s unique stream-based architecture is designed to handle any type of data model at web-scale volume and latency. Built on top of open standards including IPFS, libp2p, and DIDs and compatible with any raw storage protocol like Filecoin or Arweave, all information stored on Ceramic exists within a permissionless cross-chain network that lets developers tap into an ever growing library of identities and data while using their preferred stack.

IDX: Cross-chain identity and user-centric data
Identity is the first use case enabled by Ceramic’s building blocks for open source information. IDX (identity index) is a cross-chain identity protocol that inherits Ceramic’s properties to provide developers with a user-centric replacement for server-siloed user tables. By making it easy to structure and associate data to a user’s personal index, IDX lets applications save, discover, and route to users’ data.

The IDX SDK makes it simple to manage users and deliver great data-driven experiences using the same NEAR keys and wallets as developers and users are already relying on. Users can also link multiple keys, from any wallet and multiple blockchains, to the same identity. This is essential to developers who want to serve users over time, as it enables key rotation, data interoperability across accounts, and rich cross-chain profiles, reputations and experiences.

Getting started with Ceramic on NEAR
NEAR is currently hosting an Open Web Community hackathon! There is a prize for integrating IDX profiles on Ceramic with theSputnik DAO platform, built on NEAR. For more information, head to the NEAR Forum.
To install NEAR, start with our documentation.
To add IDX to your project, follow this installation guide.
To use Ceramic for streams without IDX, follow this installation guide.
Regardless of which option you choose, you should also select 3ID Connect as your DID wallet during the authentication process which handles the integration with NEAR wallets.
For questions or support, join the Ceramic Discord and the NEAR Discord.
A Platform for Interactive Collectibles by Renowned Artists
COMMUNITY
April 24, 2020
Art existed since the dawn of time, but the majority of people don’t own art due to prohibitively expensive cost of it. It’s viewed as a luxury. Private collections and public galleries existed for centuries, but the mainstream ownership of art never quite happened. 

As the Internet became mainstream, various forms of entertainment became digitized: notably books, music, publications, and movies. As a result, in many of these industries, the power shifted from old guard like Warner Brothers to new guard like Netflix. 

Art ownership didn’t quite become mainstream in its digital form, partially due to the lack of digital scarcity. As younger generation artists try to utilize new digital channels (Instagram) Artsy) to monetize their work, the Internet still feels like a place to advertise your offline work. It’s bizarre since it feels like we are not in 2020, and instead 25 years back.

As it might be obvious, the younger generation is showing less affection for physical art and museums. Museums are attracting audiences 35-44, but not connecting with younger audiences, 18-24. There was a 16% increase in visitors between 35 and 44 and a 23% decrease in visitors between the ages of 18 to 24 recently.

On the supply side of the market, it is very hard to become an artist that can get paid well due to a lot of issues with high priced art not being liquid.

How can you enable the mass market ownership of digital art while providing more sustainable livelihood to artists?

Introduction to Snark.Art
For the longest time, the question of scarcity of supply of digital art was driving the question of whether digital art is marketable, as galleries were deciding on how to use online channels in distributing their physical art. Sooner or later, however, the art market had to move online.

What was holding off the move to online art ever since the beginning of the Internet was the digital scarcity? With the creation of programmable platforms like Ethereum, one of the branches of experimentation focused on non-fungible tokens, such as digital assets within games and digital art. For the first time ever, the concept of digital scarcity was explored.

As OpenSea and other marketplaces start to get to seven-eight digit annual volumes, digital art is inevitably a piece of this larger digital asset pie. Digital art is now scarce and secured through the use of blockchain technology.

Snark.art is pioneering the evolution of this trend, adding both interactivities to otherwise simple experiences & bringing the vast network of artists into this new world.

Snark.art is creating a digital art platform for artists to enable the production and selling of digital assets, management of their community, and enabling the liquidity through the secondary marketplace post the initial sale.

It leads to two major advantages to artists: the ability to tap into younger demographics (by selling cheaper pieces to much larger audiences) & enabling liquidity in the marketplace that wasn’t liquid prior to this.

For example, Snark.art worked with top artists like Eve Sussman who was able to distribute over 1,400 pieces of art at $120 each, leading to well over $150,000 in proceeds to the artist. 

An experiment in ownership and collective interaction, the piece can be reassembled and screened at will by the community of collectors. As an additional effect, the process creates a unique community of buyers who now can participate in the screening by combining their pieces to be able to see the full picture.

Why Blockchain:
The blockchain serves primarily three functionalities in this case: creating digital scarcity, creating divisible components that are now accessible to the mass market, and opening up secondary markets to bring liquidity in previously illiquid markets. 

In this case, the liquid markets over time will be able to sustain the livelihood of artists who previously wouldn’t be able to make a living while pursuing their passions.

As the next generation blockchains launch in 2020, they bring both usabilities of mainstream web applications and scalability needed for the interactivity part of the experiences. As a result, we will move past simple non-fungible token experiences (e.g. CryptoKitties success in 2017) and develop the use cases unexplored before. 

The ideal state of the ecosystem is to enable blockchain-based marketplace with the economy on top of it, which allows artists to monetize their work directly and have the ability of the community to not only have partial ownership in future economies of digital art forms but also dictate the direction of community-owned and operated web service. 
NEAR Balkans’ Tekuno and Mastercard Team Up for Gamified NFT Experience
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 7, 2023
NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce that Tekuno, one of the most innovative NEAR Balkans Hub projects, recently teamed up with Mastercard to serve up an incredibly unique real-life NFT experience. Attendees at the recent Money Motion (MoMo) Fintech conference in Zagreb, Croatia got a taste of how Web3 and NEAR can help brands reach new audiences with blockchain gamification.

Mastercard, a leader in global payment systems, enabled the Tekuno team and NEAR Balkans to realize this ground-breaking experience with NFTs. The NFT activation provided MoMo visitors with a gamified experience through which they could gather evidence of their participation at the conference and various NFTs — a concept called Proof of Doings (PODs).

These PODs had time and space restrictions, so participants could only pick them up during a particular period of the conference. PODs demonstrated a novel use case of how NFTs can be used to gamify real life, while strengthening Mastercard’s brand as forward-thinking in the loyalty and payments space.

Behind the Tekuno and Mastercard partnership
The city of Zagreb, Croatia, recently hosted the first edition of an exclusive FinTech conference called Money Motion. With Mastercard as one of the conference organizers and NEAR Balkans as a sponsor, this presented the perfect opportunity for collaboration.

Before the conference, NEAR Balkans Hub’s Product Lab was ready to launch Tekuno,  a blockchain as a service (BaaS) platform for NFT experiences. A user-friendly product for seamless onboarding of mass audiences to Web3, the Tekuno platform makes blockchain knowledge a preference rather than a requirement. 

Tekuno can be used for a variety of campaigns and experiences, including loyalty programs, marketing activations and events, CRM, HR initiatives, and much more. The technology does this through the creation of secure and transparent Proof-of-Doings (PODs) in the form of digital collectibles (NFTs) to attest and reward a wide range of activities. For the “Experience the Motion” campaign, Tekuno was used as proof-of-attendance.

How MoMo attendees claimed NFT PODs
In “Experience the Motion”, MoMo attendees proved their attendance by collecting a total of 5 different NFT PODs. These PODs were exclusive — attendees could only claim them at specific times during the conference.Attendees claimed their PODs by simply scanning QR codes at several predefined locations — the entrance, speakers presentations and panels, and the NEAR Balkans booth.

The PODs functioned as a prize raffle gateway, which attendees entered by following certain rules. MoMo attendees competed for a number of exciting prizes, including: exclusive Mastercard merchandise; a special 1–2–1 session with Christian Rau, Senior Vice President Crypto and Fintech Enablement Mastercard Europe; an invitation to a Web3 NEAR educational workshop, VIP access tickets for conference party; and the grand prize — a Mastercard Priceless.com experience at Chiavalon, Istria, an olive oil making and tasting experience for two. 

NEAR Balkans and Mastercard campaign results 
The “Experience the Motion” ultimately reached more than 14,000 people on social media, and was available for over 1,000 attendees over two days of the conference. Tekuno’s user-friendly technology made it possible to distribute more than 500 PODs to more than 200 unique collectors.

Feedback from the attendees regarding the NFT experience and rewards was overwhelmingly positive. Participants found the Tekuno platform to be intuitive and easy to navigate. Participants  were able to easily open accounts, allowing them to follow the challenges and collect the PODs for a chance at winning exciting prizes. 

“This is the most seamless experience I have ever had with a Web3 app, and I’ve experimented with many, trust me,” said Vlaho Hrdalo, Lawyer and Chairman of UBIK — Croatian Association for Blockchain and Cryptocurrency. 

Nikola Škorić, the CEO of Electrocoin, Gold sponsor of the conference, added: “‘Experience the Motion ’ — the NFT activation made possible by Mastercard and organized by NEAR Balkans and Tekuno for the Money Motion conference, engaged our audience in an authentic and fun way that brought extra value to the conference while rewarding the luckiest ones.”

“We’re happy that Money Motion is a place of technology adoption and that brands see us as a great partner for such activities,” Škorić added.

Driving engagement with NFTs
As Mastercard and NEAR Balkans noted, many attendees, who ranged from fintech professionals to regional bank representatives, retail marketing leads, and others were particularly interested in Tekuno’s various use-cases. Indeed, it demonstrated the real-world applications and versatility of NFTs, helping traditional industries see the value in Web3 integrations. 

Gea Kariž, Marketing Director at Mastercard Croatia, shared her insights on the successful collaboration between Mastercard, Money Motion, Tekuno, and NEAR Balkans. 

‘’Our collaboration with the Tekuno and NEAR Balkans teams provided Mastercard HR with a seamless and exceptional entrance into the Web3 domain,” said Kariž. “Through this activation, we not only gained significant brand visibility but also reinforced our commitment to embracing blockchain and other cutting-edge technologies.”

“The added value of this campaign was the deep engagement we experienced with our end-users, fostering a strong sense of community around our brand and further solidifying our position as a forward-thinking and innovative company,” Kariž added.

The NEAR Balkans General Manager, Ida Pandur, was similarly inspired by the partnership — especially as it aligns with NEAR Foundation’s Web2.5 strategy of onboarding the masses with real use cases in Web3.

‘’We at NEAR Balkans are committed to help and enable mass adoption of Web3 and decentralization into everyday lives,” said Pandur. “The way we do it is by educating, enabling and  partnering with innovative organizations to bring Web3 to users in simple, value added, use cases. We are happy to have been working with Mastercard and use Tekuno, which is one of the best Web2→Web3 tools UX wise to bring it to life at MoneyMotion and from the interest we see across the region, it’s just getting started.’’

Sally Meouche-Grawi, CEO of Tekuno, noted that the campaign illustrated how Tekuno demonstrated that Web3 products can be user-friendly. 

“We’re trying to make it as user friendly as possible, but it’s still realistically a Web3 product, but it’s a Web3 product that is easy to use,” said Meouche-Grawi. “And this is what a lot of these products are critically lacking, which is the easy onboarding experience.”

“So, we are trying to set the standard… to show how we can create a Web3 product that any average user can actually use,” Meouche-Grawi added. “Because from my experience when it comes to Web3 products they are usually developed by developers for developers, this is the trend and we are trying to break it.’’


Open Call for Feedback on NEAR Protocol Validator Delegation Proposals
COMMUNITY
September 14, 2023
Validators are the backbone of the NEAR Protocol, playing an integral role in upholding the network’s core values now and into the future. Validators ensure that NEAR Protocol remains scalable, user-friendly, secure, trustworthy, and most importantly, decentralized. 

NEAR validators provided community feedback on how to improve the validator experience, and we collectively listened. Responses suggested that routes to secure funding were unclear, and that existing delegations from the NEAR Foundation lacked transparency.
The result of the community feedback process is a new NEAR Protocol Validator Delegation Proposal and an open call RFP to coordinate the NEAR Protocol Institutional Validator Programme. The RFP will be open until Monday September 24th, 2023.

Drafted in collaboration with a number of ecosystem participants — Meta Pool, Banyan Collective, DevHub, Pagoda, Proximity, Validator Community, and NEAR Foundation — this proposal creates a framework for a refreshed validator delegation structure. It clearly defines a number of expectations for validators, aims to align incentives, assigns ownership, and enhances transparency around securing funding support.

The proposal’s framework addresses three delegation tracks — community validators, institutional validators, and 100% fee project validators — with the goals of improving transparency, strengthening the Nakamoto coefficient of the NEAR Protocol, and increasing validator selection at custody providers: 

Community Validators — Individual participants or smaller entities within the NEAR Protocol ecosystem who choose to operate validator nodes. They are strong advocates of NEAR Protocol’s principles and values, and actively contribute to the decentralization and security of the blockchain. The proposal addresses issues that Community Validators face, including resource constraints, rewards, vulnerability to attacks, and limited influence, building on new proposals for Community validators put forward in June.
Institutional Validators — Typically large entities, such as companies, financial institutions, or well-established organizations. They often have significant resources and stake in the NEAR Protocol, which allows them to operate powerful and reliable infrastructure to maintain the blockchain. This proposal addresses concerns around institutional validators such as network centralization, lack of community inclusivity, and inequality in influence.
100% Fee Project Validators  — A track to support growth activities resulting in onboarding of users to the NEAR Protocol, and continued engagement through retention programmes. 
Firstly, check out the full NEAR Protocol Validator Delegation Proposal and provide any feedback publicly here. Your feedback is greatly appreciated to improve the proposal.

Secondly, since this is an open call RFP to run the NEAR Protocol Institutional Validator programme, please return any applications to [email protected].

Additionally, Restaking is coming to NEAR courtesy of Octopus Network. Under Octopus 2.0, $NEAR stakers will have the ability to secure appchains with their staked $NEAR. Find out more here

Many thanks for your continued support to improve the validator experience and help secure the NEAR Protocol.  
Toward a Better Planet:
Green NFTs
CASE STUDIES
June 8, 2021
After the boom of decentralized finance in 2020, the blockchain industry has turned its attention to NFTs. Artists, celebrities, and blockchain enthusiasts alike are minting, buying, and selling NFTs. But NFTs aren’t without controversy. Many people are against them because:

Minting an NFT costs so much gas it becomes unviable for smaller artists.
NFTs run on technology that has a large, negative impact on the environment.
These are concerns that can both be addressed. The NEAR Foundation is excited to announce Green NFTs, a project where several environmentally conscious artists create art that will be put up for sale in a South Pole store on Mintbase. Half of the proceeds from these artworks will go to the artist and the other half will go to a selection of certified climate action projects developed by South Pole, an award-winning project developer.


South Pole projects range from protecting a strategic wildlife corridor in Zimbabwe and empowering local communities to generating renewable energy and helping create the circular economy with efficient waste disposal. While cutting carbon is the science underpinning their projects, building a socially just world is at the heart of what they do.

“We need to think about our impact on nature and take decisions that offset our impact. There aren’t that many crypto-art initiatives that are ethical and green, but NEAR and Mintbase fit the bill.” – Barbara Tosti, artist

Collaborating For the Greater Good
Because Mintbase is built on NEAR, creating a store and minting NFTs is affordable, fast, and scalable. Anyone can mint NFTs and sell them for whatever price they want, even if that’s less than ten dollars. Previously, gas fees would have made that economically unviable, but NFTs shouldn’t be a rich people’s game.

That’s not all. Artist collaborations have become much easier, because Mintbase allows anyone to easily split both the revenue and royalties of a piece of art. All you need to do is define who gets what percentage. The smart contract will do the rest. Consider how this encourages novelists to write a book together, musicians to compose music together, and artists to work together with climate organizations for the greater good.

Built on Carbon-Neutral Technology
Green NFTs are only possible because the underlying infrastructure is carbon-neutral. The NEAR Foundation has been working together with South Pole to measure and offset its carbon footprint, and South Pole recently awarded the NEAR protocol its climate-neutral product label.

NEAR purchased carbon offsets from South Pole’s certified climate action projects to compensate for all direct and indirect emissions associated with the blockchain. Importantly, the NEAR protocol uses a proof-of-stake consensus mechanism instead of a proof-of-work consensus mechanism, which means that the NEAR protocol’s carbon emissions only amount to a fraction of any proof-of-work blockchain.

Measuring the carbon footprint of any blockchain is still a new field with many gray areas. Developments and changes to current methodologies can be expected as the field develops over time. But it’s important to start measuring today and iterate until we get it right instead of waiting for the perfect solution.

“The environment should be at the core of any technological product. I lost interest in crypto-art when I learned about its environmental impact, but NEAR is on the right path to dealing with this problem.” – Riccardo Torresi, artist

A Step in the Right Direction
NFTs needn’t be expensive to create and they needn’t be bad for the climate. Instead, when the infrastructure is clean and when the incentives are aligned properly, they can be a force for good. Linking NFT art and their proceeds to real projects with measurable climate benefits can nudge NFT creators and buyers toward valuable social and environmental causes.

The Green NFT project is one of the first examples of how this can be made possible. We believe it’s a step in the right direction, and hope to see many other projects contributing in similar ways for the greater good in the NEAR future. Keep your eyes out on our social media channels for an announcement on where you’ll be able to see and buy art from the Green NFT project.

“Nobody is without sin when it comes to their carbon footprint. But, while I don’t think anybody can be perfect, you can try to make better individual choices, particularly when the right solutions are already out there.” – Zeitwarp, artist


As well as storing carbon, forests provide innumerable benefits to humans and wildlife alike. This picture shows a sunset over the Kariba Forest Protection project.
near-api-js 0.44.0 Released
DEVELOPERS
December 10, 2021
We have just released a new minor version of our JavaScript client library (NEAR-API-JS). v0.44.0 brings some significant changes, so let’s take a moment to go over the changelog and review what’s new.

RPC API Keys
TL;DR: Added support for RPC Server API Keys (PR #729)
The JavaScript library now allows you to define an API key to authenticate with the target RPC server. This feature comes in preparation for the upcoming change that will require keys to access our public RPC servers. Supporting API keys will also allow you to connect to third-party and non-public RPC servers in the future. If you’re wondering about the integration, you can find some practical code examples in our Cookbook.

For the moment there’s no need to take action on your side: currently, this is a non-breaking change, and your JavaScript code will continue to work correctly if you don’t provide an API key.

New verify method
TL;DR: Added a verify method on PublicKey type to verify signature correctness (PR #710)
Before this change, you could only verify a message or signature with KeyPair, which also required having a secret key. This requirement was completely irrelevant in the context of the signature verification process.

Thanks to the new verify method, it’s now possible to verify signatures using just a public key. You can find a code example on how to verify with a public key in our GitHub repository.

Key file permissions
TL;DR: Key file permissions changed to 0o600 (#706)
Account credentials are stored on your hard drive whenever you use the CLI with NEAR login. Regular file permissions allowed anyone on the system to access and read those credentials. As we care about security, we changed how the stored credentials’ file permissions are set, so only the owner can access the content.

Please note that this change won’t affect the permissions on existing keys. If you are handling sensitive keys, we recommend changing the file permissions manually.

Before:

[near@x1 ~] stat –format ‘%a’ ~/.near-credentials/testnet/near-test.testnet.json

644

After:

[near@x1 ~] stat –format ‘%a’ ~/.near-credentials/testnet/near-test.testnet.json

600
Ready Layer One Rewind
COMMUNITY
May 27, 2020
In the backdrop of a global pandemic, economic shutdowns, work from home mandates, uncertainty and anxiety, crashing markets, tens of millions of unemployment filings, and money printers around the world going BRRRR — there was a need for solutions, and a need for unity. 

The vision of the technology we are developing is one that reroutes power back to the people. But that type of world changing vision can only be achieved with wide scale community coordination. 

So the NEAR team went to work calling up our friends at various other protocols. Soon, a coalition emerged: Celo, Cosmos, Polkadot, Protocol Labs, Solana, Tezos and NEAR. 

We envisioned workshops with members from various teams discussing standards, opportunities to contribute resources and expertise for the collective good of the space, and laying the foundations for future development. More than that — we wanted an opportunity, in these isolating times, to connect with others who also believe that we can rewrite our trajectory.

Designed with our unique global circumstances in mind and executed in 5 weeks, Ready Layer One is proof that collaboration is greater than competition. 

The Founders and Core Team members from every major Layer 1 ecosystem joined over 3900 other brilliant minds for the 3-day Ready Layer One; an intersection between a hackathon, a conference, a masterclass seminar and a vaguely anarchist festival for developers and builders of a decentralized web.

The event was designed for participants to choose their own adventure: hop in and out of a variety of ongoing sessions, be randomly matched with other participants for a 1:1 video chat or host their own pop-up workshop!

While the group chats, the memes, and the friends we made were most of the fun — we’ve done our best to capture the spirit by recording all the various presentations, workshops and sessions. And now, we’re sharing those with you! 

Our Favorite Moments from RL1 
👾 Day 1: 
We kicked things off with NEAR’s Erik Trautman and Illia Polosukhin announcing NEAR Mainnet! 


Alex Skidanov (NEAR), Anatoly Yakovenko (Solana), Justin Drake (Ethereum Foundation), Christopher Goes (Cryptium Labs), Jesse Walden (Mediachain Labs), and Karl Floersch (Optimism) discuss the importance of composability, explore the various approaches from leading protocols and how composability will impact developers. 


Anna Rose from Zero Knowledge podcast and Tarun Chitra begin the process of unpacking the opportunities and challenges for privacy and privacy tech post-quarantine. 

Vitalik Buterin discusses weaponized interdependence, the progression of control over resources vs control over networks, and control as liability. He makes a case for 2020 being the decade of Systempunks in his presentation: Cryptography and Cryptocurrency In Context: The Next Decade

Illia Polosukhin, Marek Olszewski, Sam Williams, Dietrich Ayala, and Curtis Spencer discuss various web3 projects building developer communities and how to grow the interest among traditional developers in programmable web.

⚡ Day 2: 
Unchained LIVE with Laura Shin, Illia Polosukhin (NEAR), Zaki Manian (Cosmos), Robert Habermeier (Polkadot) and Arthur Brietman (Tezos).


An assembly of protocol teams: NEAR, Polkadot, Cosmos and Golem come together to address Wasm in trustful vs trustless environment, metering, performance and safety, Wasm in Wasm, languages for the smart contracts.


Ashley Tyson from NEAR Protocol and Douglas Rushkoff, author of Team Human, discuss the velocity of money and how to build technology that enhances human cooperation. 

🛸 Day 3:
Data Availability Roundtable with Mustafa al-Bassam, Jeff Burdges (Polkadot), Dankrad Feist (Ethereum Foundation) and Alex Skidanov (NEAR Protocol) 

Crypto Cycles of Innovation: a fireside chat with Chris Dixon of Andreessen Horowitz and Robert Hackett of Fortune Magazine

James Prestwich of Summa on Working Cross Chain: reviewing cross-chain communication basics and examples of it working in the wild.

Get Involved: 
NEAR is hosting several hackathons and has weekly community events. You can find a full list in our events calendar.

If you would like to get involved contributing to NEAR’s technical or community efforts, please have a look at the contributor program.

We look forward to seeing you get involved. Have questions? Join our Community Chat.
Unsolved Problems in Blockchain Sharding
DEVELOPERS
December 12, 2018
In the first part of the series we provided motivation for blockchain sharding and discussed some core concepts. In this post we will discuss some more advanced aspects of sharding, including its two biggest unsolved challenges: data availability and data validity.

Intro
The core idea in sharded blockchains is that most participants operating or using the network cannot validate blocks in all the shards. As such, whenever any participant needs to interact with a particular shard they generally cannot download and validate the entire history of the shard.

The partitioning aspect of sharding, however, raises a significant potential problem: without downloading and validating the entire history of a particular shard the participant cannot necessarily be certain that the state with which they interact is the result of some valid sequence of blocks and that such sequence of blocks is indeed the canonical chain in the shard. A problem that doesn’t exist in a non-sharded blockchain.

We will first present a simple solution to this problem that has been proposed by many protocols and then analyze how this solution can break and what attempts have been made to address it.

The supposed simple solution
The naive solution to data validity is the following: let’s say we assume that the entire system has on the order of thousands validators, out of which no more than 20% are malicious or will otherwise fail (such as by failing to be online to produce a block). Then if we sample ~200 validators, the probability of more than ⅓ failing for practical purposes can be assumed to be zero.

⅓ is an important threshold. There’s a family of consensus protocols, called BFT consensus protocols, that guarantees that for as long as fewer than ⅓ of participants fail, either by crashing or by acting in some way that violates the protocol, the consensus will be reached.

With this assumption of honest validator percentage, if the current set of validators in a shard provides us with some block, the naive solution assumes that the block is valid and that it is built on what the validators believed to be the canonical chain for that shard when they started validating. The validators learned the canonical chain from the previous set of validators, who by the same assumption built on top of the block which was the head of the canonical chain before that. By induction the entire chain is valid, and since no set of validators at any point produced forks, the naive solution is also certain that the current chain is the only chain in the shard.

This simple solution doesn’t work if we assume that the validators can be corrupted adaptively, which is not an unreasonable assumption (see here to learn more about adaptive corruption). Adaptively corrupting a single shard in a system with 1000 shards is significantly cheaper than corrupting the entire system. Therefore, the security of the protocol decreases linearly with the number of shards. To have certainty in the validity of a block, we must know that at any point in history no shard in the system has a majority of validators colluding; with adaptive adversaries, we no longer have certainty. As we discussed in the previous part, colluding validators can exercise two basic malicious behaviors: create forks, and produce invalid blocks.

Malicious forks can be addressed by blocks being cross-linked to the Beacon chain that is generally designed to have significantly higher security than the shard chains. Producing invalid blocks, however, is a significantly more challenging problem to tackle.

Data Validity
Consider the following figure on which Shard #1 is corrupted and a malicious actor produces invalid block B. Suppose in this block B 1000 tokens were minted out of thin air on Alice’s account. The malicious actor then produces valid block C (in a sense that the transactions in C are applied correctly) on top of B, obfuscating the invalid block B, and initiates a cross-shard transaction to Shard #2 that transfers those 1000 tokens to Bob’s account. From this moment the improperly created tokens reside on an otherwise completely valid blockchain in Shard #2.

Some simple approaches to tackle this problem are:

For validators of Shard #2 to validate the block from which the transaction is initiated. This won’t work even in the example above, since block C appears to be completely valid.
For validators in Shard #2 to validate some large number of blocks preceding the block from which the transaction is initiated. Naturally, for any number of blocks N validated by the receiving shard the malicious validators can create N+1 valid blocks on top of the invalid block they produced.
A promising idea to resolve this issue would be to arrange shards into an undirected graph in which each shard is connected to several other shards, and only allow cross-shard transactions between neighboring shards (e.g. this is how Vlad Zamfir’s sharding essentially works, and similar idea is used in Kadena’s Chainweb). If a cross-shard transaction is needed between shards that are not neighbors, such transaction is routed through multiple shards. In this design a validator in each shard is expected to validate both all the blocks in their shard as well as all the blocks in all the neighboring shards. Consider a figure below with 10 shards, each having four neighbors, and no two shards requiring more than two hops for a cross-shard communication:

Shard #2 is not only validating its own blockchain, but also blockchains of all the neighbors, including Shard #1. So if a malicious actor on Shard #1 is attempting to create an invalid block B, then build block C on top of it and initiate a cross-shard transaction, such cross-shard transaction will not go through since Shard #2 will have validated the entire history of Shard #1 which will cause it to identify invalid block B.

While corrupting a single shard is no longer a viable attack, corrupting a few shards remains a problem. On the following figure an adversary corrupting both Shard #1 and Shard #2 successfully executes a cross-shard transaction to Shard #3 with funds from an invalid block B:

Shard #3 validates all the blocks in Shard #2, but not in Shard #1, and has no way to detect the malicious block.

There are two major directions of properly solving data validity: fishermen and cryptographic proofs of computation.

Fisherman
The idea behind the first approach is the following: whenever a block header is communicated between chains for any purpose (such as cross-linking to the beacon chain, or a cross-shard transaction), there’s a period of time during which any honest validator can provide a proof that the block is invalid. There are various constructions that enable very succinct proofs that the blocks are invalid, so the communication overhead for the receiving nodes is way smaller than that of receiving a full block.

With this approach for as long as there’s at least one honest validator in the shard, the system is secure.

This is the dominant approach (besides pretending the problem doesn’t exist) among the proposed protocols today. This approach, however, has two major disadvantages:

The challenge period needs to be sufficiently long for the honest validator to recognize a block was produced, download it, fully verify it, and prepare the challenge if the block is invalid. Introducing such a period would significantly slow down the cross-shard transactions.
The existence of the challenge protocol creates a new vector of attacks when malicious nodes spam with invalid challenges. An obvious solution to this problem is to make challengers deposit some amount of tokens that are returned if the challenge is valid. This is only a partial solution, as it might still be beneficial for the adversary to spam the system (and burn the deposits) with invalid challenges, for example to prevent the valid challenge from a honest validator from going through. These attacks are called Griefing Attacks.
Neither of the fisherman’s two problems has a satisfactory solution, but using fisherman is still strictly better than having the possibility of an invalid block being finalized.

Succinct Non-interactive Arguments of Knowledge
The second solution to multiple-shard corruption is to use some sort of cryptographic constructions that allow one to prove that a certain computation (such as computing a block from a set of transactions) was carried out correctly. Such constructions do exist, e.g. zk-SNARKs, zk-STARKs and a few others, and some are actively used in blockchain protocols today for private payments, most notably ZCash. The primary problem with such primitives is that they are notoriously slow to compute. E.g. Coda Protocol, that uses zk-SNARKs specifically to prove that all the blocks in the blockchain are valid, said in one of the interviews that it can take 30 seconds per transaction to create a proof (this number is probably smaller by now).

Interestingly, a proof doesn’t need to be computed by a trusted party, since the proof not only attests to the validity of the computation it is built for, but to the validity of the proof itself. Thus, the computation of such proofs can be split among a set of participants with significantly less redundancy than would be necessary to perform some trustless computation. It also allows for participants who compute zk-SNARKs to run on special hardware without reducing the decentralization of the system.

The challenges of zk-SNARKs, besides performance, are:

Dependency on less-researched and less-time-tested cryptographic primitives;
“Toxic waste” — zk-SNARKs depend on a trusted setup in which a group of people performs some computation and then discards the intermediate values of that computation. If all the participants of the procedure collude and keep the intermediate values, fake proofs can be created;
Extra complexity introduced into the system design;
zk-SNARKs only work for a subset of possible computations, so a protocol with a Turing-complete smart contract language wouldn’t be able to use SNARKs to prove the validity of the chain.
While many protocols are looking into using zk-SNARKs long term, I do not know any planning to launch with them besides Coda.

Data Availability
The second problem we will touch upon is data availability. Generally nodes operating a particular blockchain are separated into two groups: Full Nodes, those that download every full block and validate every transaction, and Light Nodes, those that only download block headers, and use Merkle proofs for parts of the state and transactions they are interested in.

Now if a majority of full nodes collude, they can produce a block, valid or invalid, and send its hash to the light nodes, but never disclose the full content of the block. There are various ways they can benefit from it. For example, consider the figure below:

There are three blocks: the previous, A, is produced by honest validators; the current, B, has validators colluding; and the next, C, will be also produced by honest validators (the blockchain is depicted in the bottom right corner).

You are a merchant. The validators of the current block (B) received block A from the previous validators, computed a block in which you receive money, and sent you a header of that block with a Merkle proof of the state in which you have money (or a Merkle proof of a valid transaction that sends the money to you). Confident the transaction is finalized, you provide the service.

However, the validators never distribute the full content of the block B to anyone. As such, the honest validators of block C can’t retrieve the block, and are either forced to stall the system or to build on top of A, depriving you as a merchant of money.

When we apply the same scenario to sharding, the definitions of full and light node generally apply per shard: validators in each shard download every block in that shard and validate every transaction in that shard, but other nodes in the system, including those that snapshot shard chains state into the beacon chain, only download the headers. Thus the validators in the shard are effectively full nodes for that shard, while other participants in the system, including the beacon chain, operate as light nodes.

For the fisherman approach we discussed above to work, honest validators need to be able to download blocks that are cross-linked to the beacon chain. If malicious validators cross-linked a header of an invalid block (or used it to initiate a cross-shard transaction), but never distributed the block, the honest validators have no way to craft a challenge.

We will cover two approaches to address this problem that complement each other.

Proof of Custody
The most immediately problem to be solved is whether a block is available once it is published. One proposed idea is to have so-called Notaries that rotate between shards more often than validators whose only job is to download a block and attest to the fact that they were able to download it. They can be rotated more frequently because they don’t need to download the entire state of the shard, unlike the validators.

The problem with this naive approach is that it is impossible to prove later whether the Notary was or was not able to download the block, so a Notary can choose to always attest that they were able to download the block without even attempting to retrieve it. One solution to this is for Notaries to provide some evidence or to stake some amount of tokens attesting that the block was downloaded. One such solution is discussed here.

Erasure Codes
When a particular light node receives a hash of a block, to increase the node’s confidence that the block is available it can attempt to download a few random pieces of the block. This is not a complete solution, since unless the light nodes collectively download the entire block the malicious block producers can choose to withhold the parts of the block that were not downloaded by any light node, thus still making the block unavailable.

One solution is to use a construction called Erasure Codes to make it possible to recover the full block even if only some part of the block is available:

Both Polkadot and Ethereum Serenity have designs around this idea that provide a way for light nodes to be reasonably confident the blocks are available. The Ethereum Serenity approach has a detailed description in this paper. Both approaches rely on challenges, and thus are potentially vulnerable to griefing attacks.

Long term availability, and Conclusion
Note that all the approaches discussed above only attest to the fact that a block was published at all, and is available now. Blocks can later become unavailable for a variety of reasons: nodes going offline, nodes intentionally erasing historical data, and others.

A whitepaper worth mentioning that addresses this issue is Polyshard, which uses erasure codes to make blocks available across shards even if several shards completely lose their data. Unfortunately their specific approach requires all the shards to download blocks from all other shards, which is prohibitively expensive.

Luckily, the long term availability is not as pressing of an issue: since no participant in the system is expected to be capable of validating all the chains in all the shards, the security of the sharded protocol needs to be designed in such a way that the system is secure even if some old blocks in some shards become completely unavailable.

Data validity and data availability remain two problems in designing secure protocols that do not yet have a satisfactory solution. We are actively researching these problems. Stay tuned for updates.

Outro
Near Protocol builds a sharded general purpose blockchain with a huge emphasis on usability. If you like our write-ups, follow us on twitter to learn when we post new content:

http://twitter.com/nearprotocol
If you want to be more involved, join our Discord channel where we discuss all technical and non-technical aspects of Near Protocol, such as consensus, economics and governance:

https://discord.gg/nqAXT7h
Near Protocol is being actively developed, and the code is open source, follow our progress on GitHub:

https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore
https://upscri.be/633436/

Thanks to Justin Drake from Ethereum Foundation, Alistair Stewart from Polkadot, Zaki Manian from Cosmos Protocol, Monica Quaintance from Kadena Protocol and Dan Robinson from Interstellar for reviewing an early draft of this post and providing feedback.
The Graph Expands Subgraph Support to NEAR and 40+ Blockchains
COMMUNITY
March 14, 2024
The Graph Foundation recently announced the inclusion of NEAR into its expansive subgraph support, now encompassing over 40 leading L1 and L2 blockchains including Arbitrum, Base, Fantom, Celo, Optimism, Polygon Labs, and Scroll. By integrating with The Graph, NEAR developers gain access to a decentralized network for streamlined data querying, significantly reducing costs and improving synchronization speeds. 

The partnership highlights the NEAR Foundation’s ongoing commitment to enhancing developer resources and interoperability within open web ecosystems as part of advancing the Chain Abstraction vision. In 2021, NEAR became The Graph’s first non-EVM chain integration for its hosted service, kickstarting the evolution towards a multichain open web ecosystem. 

Subgraph support will take things a step further, facilitating better multichain data accessibility for NEAR builders and increasing the reach and breadth of tools and technologies to support Chain Abstraction. This moment also marks NEAR as the first non-EVM chain to become available on The Graph Network.

How Subgraph Support Empowers NEAR Developers
Subgraphs on The Graph are transformative open APIs that efficiently organize and serve blockchain data, accelerating the development of decentralized applications (dApps) on the NEAR Protocol. This integration offers developers further support in efficient data querying, swift access to indexed blockchain data, and seamless interoperability across multiple chains.

By streamlining data retrieval, The Graph’s subgraph support eliminates the need for exhaustive blockchain scans, allowing for quick navigation, filtering, and location of specific data points. This advancement equips NEAR developers with tools similar to Web 2.0 search engine capabilities, tailored for the precision and complexity of blockchain data. 

The Graph’s Multichain Support and Expansion Goals 
The Graph’s integration with NEAR and over 40 additional blockchains is a step towards more rich multichain development. By extending beyond Ethereum, The Graph is facilitating a unified, accessible ecosystem for designing advanced, user-focused decentralized applications (dApps) across a diverse range of blockchains. 

Enhancing interoperability among different blockchain networks also grants developers access to a broader spectrum of data, supporting the creation of dApps that are both feature-dense and user-friendly. These improvements also promote more unrestricted data exchange across chains for the purposes of dApp development.

NEAR Protocol and Future of The Graph Network
Looking forward, The Graph Network is aiming to break the barriers of decentralized access to blockchain data, as it plans to introduce new data services to meet the growing needs of Web3. The Graph’s core devs are planning ahead on executing the “Sunrise of decentralized data” initiative, designed to improve tooling and developer experience. 

Soon, NEAR devs building on The Graph Network will be able to take advantage of a free query plan, an intuitive subgraph upgrade wizard, and more. The Graph-NEAR Foundation collaboration will further emphasize the shared mission of both teams for a more interconnected and inclusive Web3 ecosystem via Chain Abstraction, enhancing the value of indexing and querying blockchain data.  
Stake Wars is Over, but We’re Just Getting Started
COMMUNITY
October 9, 2020
Almost one year from its first announcement, we are closing one of the most important chapters in the history of NEAR Protocol: The Stake Wars.

Born as a competition on top of our incentivized testnet, it quickly became everything but war, it was the birth of our Validator community. Over the course of the year, professional validators and skilled node operators helped each other to complete challenges and learn more about what it takes to be a great Validator for the NEAR community. Stake Wars participants spent hours on community chats and Github repositories to build the robust and secure infrastructure that today is running NEAR MainNet.

As a reward, a relatively small number of them, out of more than 200 active members, were selected to be the first Validators to produce blocks for MainNet Phase I. It was hard to pick the best, as every participant deserved this privilege for their commitment, passion, and participation.

Their names are (in order of staking transactions from here):

Staked, DSRV Labs, Dokia Capital, Cryptium Labs, Buildlinks, Sparkpool, Hashquark, Jazza, Erm, Bison Trails, ZKValidator, Certus One, Zavodil, Inotel, Masternode24, Lunanova, Fresh, Figment, Bazilik, 01node, Stakefish, Moonlet, Open Shards, Stakin, OkEx Pool, Chorus One, Nodeasy, Astro Stakers. 

With the end of Stake Wars, all grants related to the program are ending: no more tokens will be provided to contributors, and the NEAR Foundation will not be staking to Validators for completing the challenges.

Furthermore, BetaNet (the network we used for the Stake Wars) will be repurposed for deeply testing weekly releases, so we expect to hard fork within a few days, reset the accounts, and onboard only a small number of selected Validators from the community for testing.

When One Chapter Ends, a New One Begins
While the Stake Wars competition is over, we’re excited to announce three new opportunities to join NEAR as Validators, offering even more opportunities for rewards and community building than the Stake Wars alone:

NEAR Foundation Delegation
BetaNet Analysis Group
Open Shards Alliance
1) NEAR Foundation Delegation
The NEAR Foundation, which isn’t running validating nodes of its own, will offer delegation to new validators who apply and meet a set of ongoing criteria in supporting the network.

This initiative has three objectives:

Supporting High-quality Validators. Organizations that are geographically diverse, invest in building their own infrastructure, and are responsive to outages, but rarely have them because their uptime is close to 100%.
Fostering Ecosystem Growth. Identifying Validators committed to NEAR Community growth. Hosting local events, creating educational NEAR content, and developing tools and user interfaces for the community.
Guiding Fair Operations. Funds will be rotated between Validators as needed to balance the ecosystem and will take into consideration fees associated with every delegation. It’s important for Validators to be transparent about their operations and communicate openly with the community.
If interested in learning more or providing feedback about this initiative, please reach out via this form.

2) BetaNet Analysis Group
If during the Stake Wars you loved the thrill of catching bugs, chatting with NEAR developers in the middle of the night, sending detailed bug reports, and submitting pull-requests, this is for you. 

We are assembling a group of 5 skilled node operators to run a BetaNet node in a production-grade environment to test future releases of NEAR. This program will offer a monthly grant of $1000 (paid in NEAR) to partially cover the costs of servers, technical calls and submitting bug reports. Also, new Validators joining this program will be mentioned in the community updates, a valuable perk to attract stake from the community of delegators.

Apply from this link (the same as the above), specifying in the notes that you want to join the BetaNet Analysis Group. The NEAR Core team will evaluate your application based on geography, type of infrastructure, previous validator experience, Stake Wars participation and community participation.

If selected, you can be in the group for up to six months at a time before applying again if you wish to continue in the program. Every six months we will rotate members of the group to encourage participation from the wider community.

3) The Open Shards Alliance
During the Stake Wars, a group of Validators decided to deploy and launch their own NEAR network, with different parameters and rules – including sharding, which is not yet enabled on NEAR MainNet.

This community-driven initiative started from our Guild Program, and is not related to the NEAR Core team. The Open Shards Alliance is an excellent opportunity to become proficient in running NEAR nodes and learn the internals of the protocol. 

Thanks to a grant from NEAR Foundation, the Open Shards Alliance is now offering tokens to all contributors who help run their network, ‘GuildNet’, visible on the explorer, at this address.

You can learn more and join the Open Shards Alliance today, on Discord.

Wrapping up
The Stake Wars, NEAR’s incentivized testnet program, is now over, but there are even more new and exciting ways to stay engaged and receive support to become a Validator on NEAR:

The NEAR Foundation Delegation initiative is an application-based process to onboard more high quality validators from the community
The BetaNet Analysis Group is for technical teams who want to help NEAR build future releases of nearcore.
The Open Shards Alliance is a community initiative under the Guild Program that will provide small NEAR token contributions, and will offer a great opportunity to learn NEAR Protocol internals
Questions? Join the conversation on Discord, and connect to our community calendar to never miss any NEAR event.


NEAR & Social Good: The Future of Social Good and Crypto
COMMUNITY
July 28, 2022
Since their inception, blockchains and cryptocurrencies have been about much more than novel technologies and financial applications. Principles like building a more open, accessible, and equitable world have always featured prominently in the Web3 community.

But crypto has even more potential in fostering social good, empowering communities, and solving some of the world’s biggest challenges. It’s difficult to predict how crypto and social good will look moving forward. However, by examining the green shoots emerging from NEAR projects and communities, clues begin to emerge from the cryptographic code.

Here’s what the future of social good and crypto on NEAR might look like based on current ecosystem trends, projects, and initiatives. 

Creating novel ways for nonprofits to succeed
With traditional Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) workflows, gaps have existed in terms of coordination and fundraising. One project on the NEAR blockchain, BeeTogether, is working to fill these gaps. The project is connecting NGOs with NFT and blockchain artists to gain visibility, raise awareness, and enhance fundraising efforts.

“The BeeTogether approach is to give each artist the opportunity to present themselves individually,” explains Claudia Peter, founder of BeeTogether. “Then we give nonprofits a way to present themselves differently in marketing and social media. Together, we present the projects and how artists and their art are contributing to a greater cause.”

BeeTogether also provides NFT stores for artists on the NEAR blockchain via MintBase. And with each artist or piece of art tied to a specific cause, people can directly support both nonprofits and NFT artists. Artists may choose to support, with the help of BeeTogether, a sustainability-focused nonprofit like Seas 4 Life. (Built on MintBase, Seas 4 Life promotes oceanic sustainability through funds and educational ocean safaris with experts.) This approach points to a future where creators and nonprofits are more closely integrated via the blockchain. 

“All the artists in BeeTogether stores can choose which projects and causes they want to work with and donate to,” Peter continues. “It’s defined in the store as a smart contract. As far as revenue split, the highest percentage goes to the artist and after that the nonprofit.”

Peter predicts that cooperative models involving creators, NGOs, and even DAOs on the blockchain will enhance fundraising efforts and create even greater benefits for all parties involved.

“We try to build a triangle of three parties: artists, nonprofits, and BeeTogether. And if everyone does their share of work, everyone also gets their share of profits,” says Peter. “It goes along with the decentralized ethos. It’s not one-directional, where people just give money to an NGO and hope they do something good with it. Donors are interacting on a deeper level and with greater transparency.”

Supporting BeeTogether’s efforts is NEAR Ocean, an NFT information aggregator platform for the NEAR ecosystem. NEAR Ocean will donate a percentage of its proceeds to various charitable endeavors in partnership with BeeTogether. Founder Efte also thinks that nonprofits could potentially use unique NFTs to boost fundraising efforts and visibility.

“Wouldn’t it be cool if when you donate to a cause you automatically receive a one-of-one NFT?” Efte says. “Not as an investment, but as a unique collectible that people could showcase. Or if a donor goes on safari to a nature reserve, they get pictures minted as NFT keepsakes? There’s a lot of potential for NGOs and nonprofits once we build out more infrastructure.”

New paths for empowering underserved communities
Cryptocurrency and blockchain technologies continue to yield social good by creating financial, social, and educational opportunities for disadvantaged and underserved communities. Web3 Familia is a perfect example. An organization and DAO, Web3 Familia’s goal is onboarding over one million Latinos worldwide onto Web3.

“In the beginning, we identified a lack of Web3 resources for Spanish speakers globally,” says Christian Narvaez, Founder of Web3 Familia. “And we’ve evolved from just engaging with people who are crypto-curious. Now we educate institutional investors and venture capitalists who want to learn about blockchain to refocus how they deploy capital.”

In Web3, this sort of intersection between disadvantaged communities and investors is not uncommon and has great potential. 

“We have a cycle where people are learning and building, and now non-Web3 investors are using Web3 Familia to learn more about blockchain capabilities,” Narvaez continues. “So we’re going full circle from just teaching retail how to use Web3 for their benefit to connecting people directly with institutions.”

Narvaez also notes that DAOs and projects designed specifically for one community can and will have a wider reach and applications. Web3 Familia, for instance, is now educating English speakers and even people in remote locations in their own indigenous languages.

“We’ve branched out to working with a female collective in Peru, for instance, that teaches crypto to locals in their indigenous language of Quechua,” says Narvaez “It just goes to show that people are using our model to cater to different regions and indigenous languages across Latin America.”

Web3 Familia’s ever-evolving work is a beacon of what’s to come in crypto. Narvaez notes that many DAOs, projects, and other blockchain initiatives are rapidly evolving. They’re moving from the educational and onboarding stages to creating real-world, visible results that make a difference in people’s lives.

“Blockchain for good is graduating to the point where real-world initiatives are coming to life,” he says. “Whether it’s something like ChoiceDAO raising funds for reproductive rights or UnChained Fund getting assistance to Ukrainians at a fast pace, crypto is now helping society in tangible ways.”

Advancing educational and career opportunities
Parallel to Narvaez’s achievements with Web3 Familia is the work of the Blockchain Acceleration Foundation (BAF). Its mission: offer practical education, skills, and training that lead to jobs and contribution roles in the Web3 space. BAF has a unique structure and positioning as connective tissue between academia, students, and the blockchain industry. It provides meaningful insight into how individuals can go from simply learning about crypto to building substantial careers and income.

“BAF’s vision is to create an incentive-aligned, automated, and tax-exempt nonprofit that scales blockchain education, development, and adoption around the world,” says Nour Assili, head of growth at BAF. “Our acceleration program works closely with blockchain clubs at different universities to support them in a variety of ways, from connecting them to funding and providing mentorship.”

Student blockchain clubs and organizations face a variety of challenges. They range from legally accepting donations to accessing practical and relevant blockchain curriculum that leads to job opportunities. BAF is not just addressing many of those issues. They’re breaking new ground by coordinating with universities, students, and Web3 industry organizations.

“We’re completely blockchain agnostic and funded by a variety of protocols and labs, including the NEAR Foundation,” Assili continues. “So we’re really a source of truth for a lot of professors, students, and universities when it comes to developing and accelerating blockchain curriculums.”

But one of BAF’s most unique aspects is how the organization helps students and clubs get funding and even earn income in a regulatory-compliant manner. 

“Our Fiscal Sponsorship program is looking towards the future in that when crypto goes more mainstream, we’ll all need to pay a lot more attention to regulatory compliance,” notes Aaron Casillas, senior advisor for BAF.

“Compliance is one of the biggest threats to students and blockchain clubs,” he continues. “Whether it’s receiving donations, minting NFTs, or creating a social token, we need to think about how that’s all done in a compliant way and play by the rules.”

With the Fiscal Sponsorship program, BAF helps match university clubs with donors and provide the legal means and framework for money to exchange hands. BAF is also teaching students how to become validators on networks like NEAR. The project offers both the technical expertise for working Web3 and the legal passive crypto income for funding purposes.

“We engage blockchain clubs and support them to run validators,” Casillas explains. “We equip them with the right hardware, educational playbooks, mentorship, and office hours to give them hands-on experience in Web3 and generate a revenue stream for their club by running nodes. NEAR has been instrumental in this process, including the upcoming Stake Wars program.”

“In the future, we’ll probably see even more workers throughout the world displaced by technology,” he adds. “So I can also see the blockchain becoming needed to be some kind of rails to facilitate a type of universal basic income.”

Building a better future with NEAR     
One thing is clear about the future of crypto for social good. A diverse array of organizations, projects, and individuals will create real-world impact. Organizations like BeeTogether are showing the innovative and powerful ways of connecting NFT creators and nonprofits for environmental awareness and fundraising.

Projects working with underserved communities, like Web3 Familia, will branch out to help any and all groups. This will include educating investors, business leaders, and financial institutions about blockchain and crypto. It will also involve consulting on how to invest in the creators, communities, and builders who most need it.  

And organizations like BAF show that blockchain education will migrate from theoretical to providing meaningful Web3 opportunities for everyone. From NFT storefronts supporting the environment to campus blockchain clubs getting students jobs, the future is being built right now. Whatever your Web3 passion might be, there’s no better time to start building on NEAR than today.


$12.1 million fundraise and opening the beta program
COMMUNITY
July 10, 2019
Life is busy at Near HQ.

We’ve just closed our seed round for $12.1 million with lead investors like Metastable and Accomplice
We’re very close to releasing the Nightshade testnet
And we’ve opened applications for our beta program to bring high-quality dApp projects onto the platform
The beta program is a limited-space cohort for early adopters to launch their projects alongside the NEAR MainNet in late 2019. We’ve got two companies already locked in and accept projects on a case-by-case basis. If you’ve got a great idea for a blockchain app and want to make it a reality…
What does this mean? It means NEAR as a platform is inching further from being a research project and closer to being a living, thriving decentralized ecosystem. The platform we’re building at Near is the necessary base layer infrastructure for a new kind of web; a web of composable open services that anyone can build new applications on. This future open web will make it significantly harder for any monopoly or oligopoly of powerful actors to control the user data and public data that is necessary for applications to be made. The web we envision at Near levels the playing field and ensures that people are safe from being trapped or coerced into a service that is no longer serving them.

And this is where you come in.

NEAR is a decentralized network that lives and dies by its community. In order for this decentralized web future to come about, the ecosystem needs to grow out of the efforts of a large number of diverse people and companies. Near Inc is the main steward of the protocol right now, but that will change as more people take part in building, maintaining and governing the network and building businesses on it.

Right now, two big ways you can become involved in the NEAR ecosystem are:

Applying for the beta program with your dApp idea, or spreading the word to people who should apply
Applying or spreading the word for the open positions at Near Inc.
Beta Program
Towards the end of 2019 the NEAR mainnet will be deployed. Around this point a ton of people who hold NEAR tokens will likely want to use the apps on the network they now own access rights to, and people who hear about the launch of this new decentralized protocol will want to come and see what the fuss is all about. It’s a chance for those of us who care about decentralization to put in place the fundamental pieces that could someday grow into a new kind of Internet.

This is where you come in. We’re building the museum, but we can’t make the exhibits. We have visions of a flourishing non-exploitative tech ecosystem where people are their own agents and not rows in some BigCorp’s advertising database – and we are working hard to make sure all the nutrients are there for it to grow:

Thoughtful decentralization – over time.
Straightforward developer tooling for protecting users with powerful cryptography and consensus mechanisms.
A protective decentralized governance mechanism to steward the protocol over the long term.
The NEAR beta program is a chance to build your dApp where you have a big influence on a growing ecosystem. Smart contracts on NEAR are super easy to write and our devs dogfood everything so the tools are getting better every day. As part of the beta you will receive:

NEAR tokens for your team and to fund user accounts
A dedicated adviser from the Near team and support during development
Technical and media support for your launch on Mainnet

Applications close on July 30th.

Near Inc. Open Roles
Near Inc is building the NEAR Protocol to empower 8 billion people to take back control of their money, their data and their identity. We have an award-winning team coming from Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Niantic and MemSQL, and we are looking for world-class players to help build the future of the open web.

Developer Relations and Evangelism (SF)

Front End / UI Developer (SF/NY)

Full Stack Application Developer (SF/NY)

Network Software Engineer (SF/NY)

Community and Events Manager (SF)

Senior Marketer (SF)

Designer (SF)

Operations / HR Manager (SF)

Product Manager (SF)

Nothing quite fits? Get in touch anyways. We’re always on the lookout for people who would make great additions to the team.


Community Update: June 5th, 2020
COMMUNITY
June 5, 2020
This week in America, millions have taken to the streets to protest the murder of George Floyd and a system that pushes down minorities and perpetuates injustice.

We have been humbled and inspired to watch this movement spread across the globe. We applaud your support. This is too important for silence.

There is always more we can do in the pursuit of growth, acceptance, and allyship.

We understand that many don’t have the bandwidth for newsletters. If community programs and learning new ways to earn and learn serve you, read on. If not, we love you and are here for you regardless. If there are other ways we can support you and this community, please let us know.

The Launch of our Guild Program
We are thrilled to announce the launch of our second community program. At the beginning of the year, we started our Contributor Program to directly work with community members on NEAR initiatives. Since we began, people around the world have been looking for ways to get more involved.

The existing Contributor Program is focused on individual contributors to NEAR’s engineering efforts and it will continue. The Guild Program is focused on community contributions. Whether you already run a community, project, or company, or you want to start one, the Guild Program allows you to receive rewards based on the engagement of your Guild. Head over to the launch announcement.

Difference between Contributors and Guilds
RL1 Hackathon Winners
NEAR hosted a two-week hackathon with Gitcoin right after Ready Layer One, a virtual conference. In case you missed it, the recordings are uploaded on the RL1 YouTube Channel. We want to thank all participants, who got involved and competed for the $9.500 prize pool. Over 25 teams submitted their project, of which 12 received a prize. Check-out the full list on our blog.

Links to all the winners for anyone else clicking through

1/https://t.co/bYk3EahPC6https://t.co/CKDX4iHiOyhttps://t.co/io3cJtvpvChttps://t.co/YKT2ljwWyDhttps://t.co/mmlwJiTIgqhttps://t.co/heJUIvFXEjhttps://t.co/3NxWFI2bb5https://t.co/f5DOkDqThNhttps://t.co/7u9ZY9toWL

— Maria ⚡️ (@MariaShen) June 3, 2020

Tweet by Maria Shen — List of hackathon winners

Events
Our friends at Fabric Ventures are hosting their third edition of Web 3.0 Stage at CogX on June 8-10th. Illia and Erik will be speaking. Message us for the chance to receive a free ticket — first-come-first-serve basis.
Do you want to see what our community is up to? Join us at our Community Talk next Wednesday at 5 PM CEST. Jan will cover how cities can be introduced to smart solutions on blockchain. For more info and how to sign-up head over to our Community Calendar.
Peter joined a panel on Ecosystem development at Mainnet.events with Jacob Arluck from TQTezos and Colin Evran from Protocol Labs
Engineering Update
We completed the security audit of our core contracts. The issues that were found can be addressed by the improving documentation or adjusting the fees; 
Finishing the implementation of the core functionality of the NEAR to Ethereum bridge. Last Friday, we successfully transferred an ERC20 token from Ethereum to NEAR;
We have formed a team to work on the “contract runtime”, which in the future will be a general-purpose out of the box solution for any blockchain wanting to run Wasm contracts;
We published a spec and the implementation of light client proofs;
Lots of work on testing and stabilizing the chain;
Validator Updates
Stake Wars is now open for contributions: every validator challenge gives the opportunity to earn NEAR tokens by creating tutorials, blog posts and videos. More info in the Github repo.
Blaze, one of our contributors and validators, is building a Validator Dashboard on NEAR.
Congrats to our friends from Polkadot and Celo for launching their MainNet

How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
NEAR Launches 1,000 Teacher Education Program
COMMUNITY
December 9, 2021
As part of NEAR Foundation, the NEAR Education team is building a vast and vibrant ecosystem with the mission of making the open web accessible to everyone, regardless of experience, age, background, or native tongue. 

From lightweight, minute-long tutorials to the fully-fledged certification programs offered by NEAR University, a diverse range of expanding, community-led educational content illuminates the wonders of decentralization in a way that has never been more accessible. 

To help make mass adoption of Web3 a reality, the NEAR Education team is launching a unique and exciting initiative to onboard 1,000 teachers from all backgrounds and disciplines. Through both self-paced and instructor-led online courses, workshops, and fellowships, this army of educators will learn the ins and outs of blockchain technology and will, in turn, pass that knowledge on to others.

If we can train 1,000 teachers—not just teachers, but those who simply enjoy learning and sharing—on all things NEAR, we can reach our moonshot goal of onboarding 1 million developers and, ultimately, 1 billion users.

It’s that simple: 1,000 teachers → 1 million developers → 1 billion users. 

Ambitious? Yes. Doable? Let’s roll up our sleeves and find out.

Interested in learning and teaching with us? Be sure to head over to NEAR University for more information.

Why Create an Ecosystem of Teachers?
It’s great that Web3 developers and other crypto-natives can grasp blockchain’s technology and potential—that’s what brought crypto to the edge of this major paradigm-shifting moment. 

To cross that threshold and truly shift the paradigm, this technology needs to be simple enough for anyone to understand. This initiative explains concepts in new and engaging ways: like how blockchain works as a digital clock that cannot be stopped, and how smart contracts are autonomous programs that always tell the truth. 

To realize blockchain’s revolutionary potential, the technology has to disappear behind a layer of simplicity and clarity. Truth, trust, and time are major factors in our daily lives. If we can trust our friends and family with a copy of our house keys, or trust a bank with our life savings, then perhaps we will soon learn to trust (and easily use) smart contracts that can’t lie about our identity, money, and other valuable possessions. 

These are the keys to understanding blockchain technology: it’s a digital clock, controlled by no one, that ticks in blocks and dutifully records our shared history. It never tells a lie. To read from it, we simply ask it, since all of its data is public. To write to it, we must use bank-level secure cryptography to identify ourselves before sending our instructions.

“A blockchain ticks like a clock,” says NEAR Education’s Sherif Abushadi, “and it is in this ticking we trust, because in the end, the network is keeping an indelible record of everything that happens using cryptography. There’s not enough money or computing resources on the planet to lie about the history of this thing. It is an economically incentivized truth.”

“So, now we can trust these things (computers) with stuff that we actually care about, like identity, money, and of course the combination of the two: something we all call ‘ownership’— that’s why this tech is so important,” says Abushadi. “This is a huge idea that developers alone are not qualified to handle. We need to pull in the artists, historians, philosophers, professors, economics experts, social studies, and home economics teachers so that together we might paint a clearer picture of the vast new future this tech will bring.”

All Backgrounds and Disciplines Welcome!
Are you a philosopher, an economist, or a social studies teacher? A historian? A brick-and-mortar business owner? An adventurer? Perfect! We want to hear from you. 

Come learn, see, and teach the future with us.

We want the NEAR ecosystem to be a place where all feel welcome and able to learn, from developers and designers to makers, social entrepreneurs, and more. If Web3 is to fulfill its promise, we will need folks from all walks of life to help shape its future. 

Learn Blockchain, Inspire Future Web3 Developers
In NEAR Education’s new initiative, you will go beyond the headlines of token speculation and NFT minting to explore the technology and innovation that lies at the heart of the blockchain. Even better, you will be able to share what you learn with others.

“It’s not enough for developers to talk about Web3 software,” Abushadi says. “We need 1,000 teachers talking about this from every imaginable angle, especially in the humanities and the liberal arts. Those are the teachers that are above and beyond the software realm—the people who will give us perspective.”

Once participating teachers learn the ins and outs, you will be able to inspire the next generation of Web3 users, explorers, entrepreneurs and developers. 

How to Get Started on Your NEAR Teaching Journey
If you’re wondering how to get started, we’ve got you covered. NEAR University offers several paths to becoming a blockchain teacher. These paths are available to each and every participant, as both part-time and full-time roles. 

Here’s a brief breakdown of NEAR Education opportunities, available to teachers today. For more details on the 4 teacher pathways, you can head over to NEAR University ’s Time for Teachers page for this information and more! 

Education Grants
Your idea, your time. 

Fellowship Roles (Teacher-in-Residence)
Your courses, your content, your audience. 

NEAR Certified Instructor (NCI)
Our courses, our content, our audience.

Core Education Team Roles
Core contributor on the NEAR Education Team. 

From this group of 1,000 teachers, the NEAR Education team plans to invite two or three core team members that will help craft the community’s educational content and deliver world class learning experiences to the world. 


NEAR Foundation CEO Transition: A Note from Erik Trautman
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 16, 2021
I’m proud to say that, earlier today, the NEAR Foundation announced its selection of Marieke Flament as its new  CEO starting January 1st, 2022. It’s an exciting time of transition and we’re thrilled to bring Marieke aboard because she brings world class leadership to the NEAR community. Her hiring highlights how this ecosystem is pulling in more and more of the best talent in the world to drive it to the next level.

As we head into the new year with new leadership, I just wanted to send a personal note out to everyone at NEAR with some context for the transition and thoughts for the future.

NEAR’s Progress

In the last 3 years, the NEAR project has undertaken an extraordinary evolution. What started as a whiteboard idea to fix the scaling problems of existing chains by using a novel sharding approach quickly grew into a juggernaut that brought in some of the best technical talent in the world. Along the way, we realized that scalability was only half the solution, so we built a flexible contract-based account model to help apps achieve the kind of usability that enables mass adoption.  

And today, just a little over a year after launching, NEAR has hundreds of apps, thousands of community members, and over 1.7 million accounts. It’s been an incredible journey to see this ecosystem grow, and especially to join the community in NEARCon Lisbon to announce over $800M in funding to power the ecosystem to the next level.

Growing from 1 to 100

My role from the beginning has always been “do whatever it takes to make this project successful.” In its earliest days, that meant building out the original development company so the technology could surface. For the last 2 years it has meant standing up the NEAR Foundation so the protocol could launch from its genesis block to a fully decentralized community hand-off in 2020. Now, both the NF and the ecosystem around it have changed substantially.

In 2019, the NF was a piece of paper on a long table in a Swiss lawyer’s office. Now it is powered by the efforts of more than 50 people spread around the world who help to advocate for a community that has grown exponentially. As with any startuppy organization, the NF has reinvented itself several times during the intervening years but, at last, I can say that it has officially made it from 0 to 1. 

Now, the NF is ready for the even bigger journey from 1 to 100 and it’s ready for the right hands to guide it there.

For the better part of a year, the NFC and I have conducted a careful search to build out the right leadership team. This is a strange-shaped organization in a strange-shaped ecosystem so it takes an unusual leader to carry it forward. With a mandate to support and advocate for the community, this requires someone who has the mentality of a founder, experience scaling global organizations, an intimate understanding of crypto, an unusual community orientation and, of course, world class servant leadership.  This led to an extremely narrow list.

Marieke

Marieke is the perfect fit.

Her experience growing Circle’s European operations and, later, their entire marketing organization, made her deeply familiar with both the power and the unusual nature of this community. She took those skills into the leading edge of the banking world as Mettle’s CEO, but the future of finance is decentralized and we’ve managed to guide her back home to an ecosystem that’s truly breaking out at NEAR.

Marieke has earned the faith and trust of the leadership team and the NFC so I hope you’ll welcome her too 🙂

The Transition

Marieke will take the lead of the NF on January 1, 2021, where she’ll continue to support the explosive progress of the NEAR community and ecosystem.

As for me… my job description in the next stage will be the same—do whatever it takes to make NEAR successful. So, I’ll be supporting the transition, advising the NF, and engaging areas of the ecosystem where we can do even better, including by creating bridges through product, growth, and community to help NEAR-based applications achieve mass adoption.

This project has been a hell of a ride and it’s still the opportunity of a lifetime for anyone who’s ready to get involved. I’m excited to read its next chapter from a different perspective and to have Marieke at the helm of the NF to help write it.
Blockchain Scaling Approaches: NEAR Sharding vs. Layer 2s
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 14, 2023
Layer-twos (L2s) have become increasingly popular as a scaling solution for layer one (L1) blockchains in the past several years, especially after Ethereum decided to scale via a rollup-centric roadmap. A layer-two is a protocol built on top of an existing blockchain to improve its scalability, throughput, or privacy and reduce the congestion and cost of operating on the L1 blockchain. NEAR, on the other hand, chose to scale through a different approach: sharding. In this post, I’ll explain the rationale behind NEAR’s approach and why NEAR does not plan to scale through layer 2.

To understand the differences in scaling approaches, let’s first take a look at how layer 2s work. Generally speaking, layer 2s work by performing state transitions outside of (or off-chain from) the layer 1 they build on and committing state roots and transaction data to the underlying layer 1. Depending on how exactly the state transitions are verified, these may be optimistic rollups, which rely on fraud proofs, or ZK rollups, which use zero-knowledge proofs to show the validity of the layer 2 state transition.

The premise of scaling through rollups is that a rollup has higher throughput than the underlying L1 due to decreased consensus overhead; there could be many rollups running as their own chain and processing different transitions. The underlying L1 provides security for rollups as a settlement layer, and rollups offer scalability in return. This offloads the significant challenge of scalability onto a protocol that exists outside of the L1 and therefore simplifies the L1 protocol design. Ethereum, for example, is well known for its plan to scale through rollups such as Arbitrum, Optimism, ZkSync and Polygon zkEVM.

How well does this promising design approach work in practice? While it may still be too early to say, given that Ethereum is the only major blockchain adopting this approach and that L2s themselves are relatively nascent, there are lessons to be learned already. First, composability between layer 2s is a problem. While each rollup itself has higher throughput than Ethereum, rollups lack the native interoperability that allows contracts from different rollups to interact with each other. Each one can only interact with the Ethereum L1. Composability is especially important for financial applications and is arguably what makes the Ethereum L1 so successful. 

Second, while in theory rollups should work together to scale Ethereum, in practice the overall scaling achieved by rollups collectively is not much more than what one rollup offers. That is mostly due to the fact that popular Ethereum dapps run on almost all rollups and as a result, similar transactions are “duplicated” across different rollups. The transactions to use DeFi applications such as Uniswap on different rollups actually compete for call data space on Ethereum for data availability.

In contrast, NEAR scales through sharding, or parallelizing the network into partitions that are built into the protocol itself, with the same security guarantees of the L1 blockchain. NEAR’s architecture is, in some sense, similar to Ethereum with rollups, where each shard is similar to an optimistic rollup. The difference is that because sharding is built into the protocol, applications on one shard can natively interact with applications on another shard. The homogeneous sharding model also means that two apps interact in the same way regardless of whether or not they are deployed on the same shard. As a result, not only do developers not need to care about which shard to deploy their applications on, they also have the peace of mind that their application can freely interact with any other application deployed on NEAR without having to resort to third-party bridges. 

While composability is a nontrivial advantage of NEAR’s sharding approach, it is not all NEAR has to offer. Fast finality on NEAR means that users can be confident that their transactions are finalized in two to three seconds. In the rollup world, however, transaction finality is much worse. Optimistic rollups are known for their long exit time (usually 7 days) and ZK rollups are bottlenecked on proof generation, which takes up to 10 minutes today. Furthermore, in NEAR’s sharding model, since both processing and state are completely sharded, the throughput almost scales linearly with the number of shards. Thanks to the native composability mentioned above, developers and users truly benefit from the scalability as one application is only deployed once on one shard, unlike the current state of rollups where many popular applications have to be deployed on many rollups, which reduces the amount of true parallelism in transaction processing.

This is not to say, however, that NEAR’s approach is superior. Sharding makes the protocol very complex, hard to understand, and difficult to implement. In comparison, the rollup-centric approach taken by Ethereum has a relatively simple design, even though it still requires data availability sharding (Danksharding) for layer 2s to work efficiently.

Ultimately, the different choices on scaling approaches reflect different design philosophies of the underlying protocol. Ethereum wants the protocol itself to be maximally robust and resilient and therefore it is important to minimize the complexity of the L1 protocol design. NEAR, on the other hand, prioritizes simplicity for developers and users and is willing to make the protocol more complex under the hood for the sake of a better experience for its users.

It is worth noting that NEAR is not just a blockchain protocol, but an operating system that offers a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences and is compatible with any blockchain. Despite the differences in protocol design, NEAR as the blockchain operating system allows developers and users from different blockchains, including Ethereum layer 2s, to build and use applications across many different blockchain ecosystems. 


NEAR Wallet Rockets to Over 20 Million Users With SWEAT Partnership
COMMUNITY
November 3, 2022
It’s almost hard to believe that the NEAR Wallet had only 2 million users at the start of this year. At over 20 million users, NEAR is thrilled to mark its wallet’s tenfold growth in less than a year. NEAR is really creating without limits!

This meteoric rise can be attributed to a number of factors, including growing support among builders for NEAR’s user-friendly, highly scalable, climate neutral blockchain. But also instrumental in this growth is NEAR’s epic partnership with companies such as SWEAT Economy, the world’s most popular fitness app.

Largest ever on-ramping of Web2 users into Web3
At the moment, over 800 projects are building on NEAR, which uses Proof-of-Stake consensus to secure and validate transactions on the blockchain. NEAR has also lowered barriers for creators with developments such as the launch of Javascript SDK. This gives over 20 million developers the chance to build Web3 apps using JavaScript, the most popular coding language in the world. 

In September,  Sweat Economy—the “economy of movement”—successfully launched on NEAR with the largest ever airdrop to active, opted-in, wallets. The Move-to-Earn platform, active in Web2 since 2016 with over 130 million global users of its Sweatcoin app, distributed their new Web3 SWEAT token to 13.5M token holders. The Sweat Wallet app quickly became the #1 most downloaded Finance app in more than 50 countries. This follows Sweat’s success as the fastest IDO ever to sell out on the DAO Maker platform.

Sweat Economy distributed over 4.7 Billion of its newly launched SWEAT tokens to the 13.5M Sweatcoin users who opted to enter Web3. For many of these users, it is their first experience with blockchain technology, making this the largest ever on-ramping of self-custody users from Web2 to Web3.

“It’s been an extraordinary year for NEAR as we ramp up efforts to attract the world’s best and socially-minded developers on our protocol,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. “We have put our emphasis on championing talent diversity, regional hub development, and sustainable practices. Equally important to our success is the strategic partnerships we have forged with prominent companies that have done a brilliant job at transitioning from a Web2 business model to Web3.” 

Onboarding 1 billion users to Web3
This transition is particularly important as NEAR works hard to onboard one billion users to Web3. 

“Sweat Economy is one of these companies that have made it easy for people to access Web3 applications with the help of NEAR, which has led to millions of users for  its product and for our protocol,” Flament adds. “ These partnerships are key to helping us to realize our ambition to achieve mass adoption for crypto and to show the world that Web3 is capable of  solving real world problems and making society a better place for all.”

If you still have yet to join the “economy of movement,” head to your mobile app store and download Sweatcoin today and see how millions of people are earning crypto just by being physically active. Join NEAR and Sweat Economy to build a healthier collective future.
NDC V1 Governance Elections FAQ
COMMUNITY
July 20, 2023
The NEAR Digital Collective (NDC), the largest decentralization effort on any layer 1 blockchain, has spent much of 2023 designing a number of frameworks that will allow any member of the NEAR Protocol network to have a say in how NEAR is run. NDC’s goal is to combine transparency, collective decision making, evolving governance models, and self-determination in a completely new way. 

After laying this decentralization groundwork, the NDC is gearing up for its first elections. As of July 19th at 15:00 pm UTC: I-AM-HUMAN OG SBT Soul Bound Tokens holders can now nominate themselves for office. This is your opportunity to upvote and to comment on candidates you believe in and who could add the most value to the future of NEAR! 

What are the key dates to remember for the NDC election?
July 19, 15:00:00 UTC — Start date for candidacy submissions on BOS and get I-AM-HUMAN SBT
September 1, 23:59:59 UTC — Deadline for Voter Registration via I-AM-HUMAN
September 1, 23:59:59 UTC — Deadline for applying for an OG Badge for candidacy eligibility
September 7, 23:59:59 UTC — Deadline for candidacy submissions
September 8, 00:00:00 UTC —  Voting begins at Near APAC in Vietnam
September 22, 23:59:59 UTC — Voting ends
Below you will find a list of frequently asked questions about the elections, from how participation and voting works to candidate selection, election integrity, and more.  

NDC V1 Governance Structure
NDC V1 Governance includes three elected houses, a voting body, and a community treasury. The qualification to run for V1 governance requires an OG SBT. Elected Community members (OG’s) of each house are responsible for planning, overseeing, and allocating funding aligned with the ecosystems Northstar to grow and decentralize NEAR. 

What will the NDC government look like?
The NDC government will be composed of three houses, structured as following:

Name of the House	House of Merit (HoM)	Council of Advisors (CoA)	Transparency Commission (TC)
Seats	15 seats	7 seats	7 seats
Responsibilities	In charge of allocating the treasury and deploying capital for the growth of the ecosystem.	In charge of vetoing proposals from the HoM and guiding the deployment of the treasury.	In charge of keeping behavior of elected officials clean, and making sure cartels do not form in the ecosystem. 
Commitment	5-20 hours weekly with a minimum participation threshold.	5-20 hours weekly with a minimum participation threshold.	5-20 hours weekly with a minimum participation threshold.
Expertise
Required	Budgetary expertise for ecosystem-wide budget planning, treasury management, and review.	Strategic minds to advise the House of Merit and hold budget veto power.	Unbiased guardians of the treasury that investigate and remove bad actors.
Nominate Yourself for Candidacy
Who can run for office?
In order to run for office, you must hold an OG SBT. These aren’t given out to just anyone; these are for people that have been actively contributing to the NEAR ecosystem for extended periods of time. If you already have an OG SBT, you can self-nominate yourself right now.

To find out the full criteria and to see if you qualify, please refer to Safeguards and OG. If you still require help, head over to the official NDC Telegram and ask a member of the team for help.

Why should you run for office?
If you’re an OG, we need your expertise and authentic commitment to the continued growth, success, and most importantly… Decentralization of NEAR. This is an opportunity for you to actualize an incredible future for NEAR.

What information will be available in the candidate profiles?
The candidate profiles are on BOS Nomination and will contain their name, background, affiliation, and policy positions. The profiles should give you a clear overview of what to expect should you select them as your preferred candidate. You can choose to upvote the candidate and comment on the candidate profiles as long as you are registered through I-AM-HUMAN.

Election Overview
Nomination starts the NDC v1 governance process and runs for 50 days and allow the community to rally their candidates. The nomination ends on September 7, and the election starts on September 8 and runs for two weeks. The elected representatives are onboarded for one week, and begin to organize the first government for the NEAR ecosystem.

Nomination Period: July 19th to September 7th, 2023

Election Period: September 8th – September 22nd, 2023

Start of 1st Congress: October 1st – April 1st, 2024

How can my vote shape the future of the NEAR ecosystem?
By engaging in the election process, you get to help determine the direction of the NDC and the future of decentralization on NEAR. This is not like a presidential election where your vote is a thimble of water added to a sea. Every vote in the NDC election actually makes a difference, and some of the elected positions will likely come down to just a few votes. When the candidates have very different policy positions, each vote has a potentially outsize impact.

How else does my vote matter?
By participating in the elections process and on-chain voting, you are also contributing to your own on-chain reputation.

Participation
How can I participate in the NDC election?
The main ways to participate in the NDC election are of course voting for candidates or running as a candidate, but there’s a lot more to it than just that. Through our Nominations platform, voters and candidates will be able to engage with one another discussing policy positions and contribute to candidacy social proof through commenting or upvoting.

What is the eligibility criteria to vote?
Any person with a Face Verified Soul Bound Token (SBT) is eligible to vote, and anyone can get one with a NEAR wallet through I-AM-HUMAN.

What is the eligibility to run in the NDC election?
In order to be eligible to run in the NDC election, candidates will need to be one or more of the following:

A Champion of the NDC that is still actively contributing to the ecosystem. Champions are ecosystem leaders that run nodes or projects and contribute to a workgroup or initiative they feel passionate about to help bring NDC V1 Gov online. They contribute by lending time or resources and also help by referring or recruiting contributors to help deliver objectives.
An NDC Contributor that forfeited or received a bounty through June ’23 that is still actively contributing to the ecosystem.
A member of NEAR Inc or NEAR Foundation before the Pagoda rebrand in Feb ’22 that is still actively contributing to the ecosystem.
A member of VCs, nodes, projects, or spinout founders in the ecosystem before the Pagoda rebrand in Feb ’22 that is still actively contributing to the ecosystem (including, but not limited to, Aurora, NEAR UA, Proximity Labs, Lyrik(MOVE) Capital, NEAR Balkans, MetaWeb, MetaPool, Orderly, NEAR Vietnam, Satori, Open Shard Alliance, Open Forest Protocol, Human Guild, HAPI Labs, Calimero, OnMachina, Ref, PemBrock, etc.).
A known OG and Community member for at least one year that is still actively contributing to the ecosystem.
Remember: bids for candidacy can be turned in as soon as July 19 and no later than September 7th. Give yourself ample time to fill out a form detailing your background, experience, and what you plan to bring to NDC governance. This material you provide helps the NEAR community make an informed decision about your candidacy.

Election Integrity
What procedures will be in place to ensure election integrity?
We would love to see every single person in the NEAR ecosystem vote in NDC elections, but in order to maintain election integrity, there is one important requirement in order to cast a valid ballot. You will need to have a Face-Verified Soul Bound Token (SBT) linked with a NEAR wallet. You may use your main wallet or create a new one explicitly for the purpose of voting.

Does Face Verification mean you have a picture of my face connected to my wallet?
No. I-AM-HUMAN does not store your biometrics. You are also free to request the deletion of any and all data collected in this process should you decide to forfeit your FV SBT.

Will there be any election oversight?
It goes without saying that we want as fair and transparent an election as possible. Given that we are remote, and that the internet can be a strange place, there have been certain safeguards implemented into all NDC elections, that deter poor behavior, and also guarantee that bad actors are punished if they are able to manipulate an election. Election integrity can ultimately be broken down into six clear safeguards: 

Safeguard 1. Fair Voting Policy (voters agreement to not sell votes). On behalf of all voters, holding an I-Am-Human verified account, you agree when you vote, that you will not sell your vote. If it turns out that you do sell your vote, you are eligible to post-election enforcement from the TC (see safeguard 6). 

Safeguard 2. Candidate Agreement to Transparency and Accountability to not buy votes. On the candidates’ side, they all also agree to not buy votes for their election, and are equally eligible for post-election enforcement if they are found guilty. 

Safeguard 3. Implementing a Vote Bonding: Vote bonding is a mechanism designed to deter malicious voting behaviors. Participants must stake a certain amount of NEAR tokens, as a bond to vote. This bond ensures good faith participation and can be reclaimed post-voting if all rules are adhered to. However, if participants engage in vote manipulation, such as buying or selling votes, the bond is forfeited. This mechanism introduces a strong financial disincentive to engage in fraudulent activities, safeguarding the integrity of the voting process. Recently, in a NDC produced EasyPoll, the community had a majority vote to have a bond for the vote.

Safeguard 4. Pikes Peak review Election results ongoing/after. NEAR is fortunate enough to have the data visualization and tracking capabilities of Pikespeak, active and involved in the ecosystem. As a core supporter of NDC, Pikes Peak is also going to be monitoring election results both during and after the election to identify any anomalies and ensure it is done as fairly as possible. 

Safeguard 5. Whistleblower program and bounty. In addition to the technical safeguards and Pikespeak oversight, the NDC is also instituting a whistleblower incentive program whereby anyone who has knowledge of potential election fraud can receive a bounty assuming their claims as to people and impact are justified and accurate. 

Safeguard 6. Enforcement by Transparency Commission. In the event of any serious election fraud the investigation, and decision to remove, or forever ban either a voter or a candidate, will lie with the Transparency Commission. This means that there is ultimately no escape for a wrongdoer once they have been discovered or accused. The official Transparency Commission process is to field a complaint, investigate the complaint, and then publicly move to either remove, or ban the member in question from further participation. 

With these six safeguards, we are hopeful that all elections for the V1 framework will be fair and transparent.

Is NEAR Foundation or any other organization external to NDC involved?
No. The NDC community is the sole administrator of this election, though NDC funding originated at NEAR Foundation.

Voting
Voting powered by I-Am-Human proof of personhood soul-bound tokens (SBTs). 1 Human, 1 Vote kickstarts voting. future versions factor in activity throughout the NEAR Ecosystem, giving merit based on contribution and reputation.

What date does voting start for the NDC General Election?
The NDC Election starts on September 8, 00:00:00 UTC, which coincides with NEAR APAC in Vietnam.

How can I vote in the NDC election?
Voting in the NDC election is designed to be as simple as possible and will take place on NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System. A link to voting will be found on the NDC’s Medium, Telegram, and Discord. You’ll simply log in, review candidate profiles and their platforms, and submit your choices. Be sure to vote within the designated time frame to be sure your voice is counted.

What should I consider before voting for a candidate?
Just like in any civic election, you should familiarize yourself with the policy positions of the candidates as well as their backgrounds. All candidates will have been vetted and have an “OG SBT,” but will likely have widely divergent views on the direction of the NDC. Asking questions and commenting on their platforms can also be a valuable way to get clarity on any positions that seem unclear to you.

Can I change my vote once I’ve submitted it?
Since all votes are recorded on the blockchain, they are immutable and cannot be changed after submission. Therefore it is in your best interest to triple check your selections before hitting that “submit” button.

Information & Support
Where can I find the most accurate and up-to-date information about the NDC election?
You can find the most accurate and up-to-date information on the NDC’s Medium, Telegram, and Discord.

Where can I get support if I have any issues or questions during the election process?
You are welcome to reach out for support on Telegram or Discord.

Post-Election
How will the election results be announced?
Election results will be announced on the NDC’s Medium, Telegram, and Discord and will also be viewable in the Election UI. Winning candidates will be highlighted in green.

What happens after the election results are announced?
After the election results are announced, the elected representatives will convene for the first time in the first NDC governance town hall, where we will hear from elected members from the three branches of NDC governance.
NEAR’s April Town Hall Highlights
COMMUNITY
May 5, 2022
NEAR’s explosive and diverse ecosystem growth continued into the spring. As always, the NEAR Town Hall is a virtual venue for the growing global NEAR community to put their finger on the ecosystem pulse. It’s also a great opportunity to meet community members, as well as teach, learn, and collectively advance NEAR adoption and the multi-chain Open Web future.

The April NEAR Town Hall explored music on the blockchain, new partnerships like Sweatcoin, events such as Paris Blockchain Week Summit, and more. Here are the highlights. 

A Flurry of NEAR Initiatives and Conferences
NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament opened the April Town Hall with details on NEAR’s latest initiatives. This included a recent partnership with Sweatcoin, announced at Paris Blockchain Week Summit, which will power the “movement economy”. In little under a month, Sweatcoin has added 1 million wallets to the NEAR ecosystem. 

Flament highlighted NEAR’s presence at New York Blockchain Week, PBWS, and Devconnect Amsterdam blockchain conferences. But the conferences haven’t been the only places where you can find in-person activities from NEAR’s global community. 

“We had several meetups organized in several parts of the world,” said Flament. “In particular, one in Portugal for the new EU integration of our Ukraine In Exile hub. And last but not least, we’re also working on our first hacker house in Miami.”

“Again, lots of amazing things are happening, [especially] on the side of fundraising,” she added. “Congrats to the many projects who have raised significant amounts of external capital. In particular, Mintbase, Bastion, Trisolaris, Sender Wallet, Rocketo, and Burrow.” 

Flament also got into the NEAR Foundation’s efforts to keep the NEAR Protocol climate neutral. 

“The new blockchain is climate neutral… but also our entire ecosystem,” she said at the town hall. “We’ve partnered with South Pole to continuously assess and look at auditing the footprint not only of the NEAR Protocol but also our entire ecosystem.”

Tune into Marieke’s talk here. 

NEAR partnerships in the news
After Flament’s introduction, Chris Ghent, Head of Marketing and Brand Partnerships at NEAR Foundation, updated the community on strategic partnerships. Many of these collaborations have made the news, not only elevating NEAR’s profile but also laying the groundwork for mass adoption. 

“The Sweat economy from the Sweatcoin team has really been an amazing thing to see,” said Ghent. “In the last 11 days or so we’ve seen over a million accounts created on the NEAR. Pretty phenomenal when you think about the future of movement and a new economy based on movement.”

“So, jumping into crypto is as easy as just walking,” he added. “And, really, the health benefits, the economic benefits of that are going to be amazing to see unfold.”

Ghent also talked about upcoming milestones for the NEAR partnership with SailGP. In case you missed it, this partnership will feature a variety of activations and products, including the creation and launch of a SailGP by a DAO run on the NEAR ecosystem. 

Tune into Chris’ talk here. 

NEAR Education launches NEAR Certified Analyst program
Next, Sherif Abushadi, Head of Education at NEAR Foundation, updated the community on its education efforts. He noted that NEAR Education has tens of thousands of students, millions in ecosystem grants, and dozens of programs shipping with more on the way. 

“We are interested in engaging people with our NEAR Certified programs,” Abushadi said. “NEAR Certified Analyst, Developer, and Entrepreneur.” 

Abushadi noted that half of the NEAR Certified program applications are submitting to join a certification program without any software development experience. So, NEAR Education wants to meet applicants where they are with the NEAR Certified Analyst program. 

“And that is, basically to spend some time talking about what are these [blockchain] systems?” Abushadi said during the town hall. “How do you think about them? And how can you make a contribution without necessarily, you know, fingers on a keyboard typing code, as would a NEAR Certified Developer?”

“So, we’re excited to announce the upcoming launch here of NEAR Certified Analysts,” he added. “We have a couple of different proposals in play. Hopefully, this quarter we’ll see that course in full swing.”

This is just a small fraction of NEAR Education’s learning opportunities. Stay tuned to the NEAR Education homepage, which is expanding and evolving monthly to learn more. 

Tune into Sherif’s full talk here. 

NEAR funding and ecosystem updates
Josh Daniels, Head of Funding at NEAR Foundation, noted that there has been a great deal of growth in funding in the first quarter of 2022. He noted that there has been a lot of positive ecosystem activity with regard to funding, both from external sources and NEAR Foundation grants. 

“On the grant side of things, we’ve had a stellar quarter in terms of grant growth and support,” Daniels said. “But I think the important thing to note as we look at our grants program is not necessarily how much we’re deploying or committing to deploy, but the quality of those projects. And we’ve really seen an uptick in the quality of products that are coming into the ecosystem.”

New NEAR products include those looking for a multi-chain strategy, transitioning from Web2, and Tier 1 teams coming in to build from the ground up.

“So, we’ve committed to deploying almost $26 million in capital to date for almost 360 projects,” Daniels said. “And the important thing to notice here is that the diversity of those projects is quite expansive.”

One such project is eFuse, an esports and gaming platform that received a NEAR Foundation grant to build on NEAR. This grant allows eFuse to bring their project into a Web3 environment. 

“There’s two ways we’re going to be partnering with them,” said Daniels. “One is the creation of an NFT platform to help mint gaming moments for, in particular, folks that are using the eFuse environment. The next is setting up a league via DAOs to help basically run gaming eSports leagues on top of eFuse leveraging the NEAR and Astro DAO technology.” 

Be sure to check out Daniels’ spot for a bumper reel of all of Web3 games building on NEAR.

Tune into Josh’s full talk here. 

NEAR’s Regional Hubs strategy
Grace Torrellas, NEAR Foundation’s Head of Regional Hubs, followed Daniels with an update on hubs. NEAR Regional Hubs fulfill many functions, but chief among them are helping NEAR decentralize and spur mass adoption. 

“What are the hubs? Well, they’re independent entities,” said Torrellas. “They are completely aligned with the foundation’s missions and objectives, but they are completely autonomous and independent entities. They have been set up by a Web3 experienced leader and they are looking at creating traction in the Open Web world.”

Hubs do this in two different ways. Firstly, a hub aims to foster Web3 talent. The hub’s other function is to help create Web3 projects on NEAR.

“Just to make sure that it’s clear hubs are not NEAR offices in those locations, they are not an extension of the NEAR foundation,” Torrellas said at the town hall. “So, the current state shows that we have 5 hubs. We are allocating $100 million in funding to create the network of regional hubs. And all these are very much focusing on developing the ecosystem. That means very close ties with NEAR University, with product labs, with Web3 incubators for both talent and projects coming for ecosystem funds.”

Torrellas spoke in detail on the Kenya Regional Hub. Emerging out of the NEAR Guild Sankore’s meetups, the Kenya hub will be critical in fostering the Open Web in continental Africa. 

Beyond the five currently active NEAR Regional Hubs, 14 prospective hubs are currently under consideration across the globe. The next hub set to go live is LATAM, which will include the Latin American countries Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, and Argentina. 

Tune into Grade’s full talk here. 

Panel on music in the Open Web era
The Town Hall wrapped with an exploration of music on the blockchain. Moderated by Vijay Gurbaxni, Founding Director of the Center for Digital Transformation, the discussion was lively, fascinating, and informative. Check out some choice quotes below and watch the blockchain music panel here.

Amber Stoneman, Minting Music

“What we’re working on with Minting Music is [creating] that bridge between Web2 and Web3, making the NFT marketplace feel very 2.0… Blockchain doesn’t look pretty behind the scenes. The cool thing about building with NEAR is that we’ve been able to really focus on a clean, very simple, and easy to use interface.”

Tim Exile, Endlesss

“What’s really magical about Endlesss is it allows you to collaborate in real time with musicians around the world. So, you can spin up what is kind of music’s answer to a live musical chat. You can throw down musical ideas, share them with a bunch of people in real time, and anybody can chime in, add layers to that, remix it, and send it back.”

Iota Chan, Tenk DAO

“NEAR is a new chain. You have to attract artists with an alternative way to launch their NFT project. What is [also] successful in attracting them is to build this creator’s culture.”

Nathan Pillai, SailGP

“Every time there’s been a major technological advancement it’s just about evolution… What we should all be working toward is how we all come together, whether that’s through A&R, whether that’s filmmaking, and try to get your project funded. There are just so many areas where I see those communities who may have been disenfranchised and not had access now have opportunity. Opportunity is really what Web3 comes down to. It’s broadening reach and that, for me, is the most exciting aspect of this.”

Tune into the blockchain music panel here. 
Internet at Crossroads — Where do we go from here?
COMMUNITY
August 27, 2018
At the time of this writing, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, and Netflix are worth $696 billion on average. That’s higher than the GDP of large countries like Argentina or Switzerland. How did the world converge to such a hegemony of just several organizations?

Additionally, I noticed that I now have a dedicated app folder for Google and Amazon apps on my iPhone. My Google mobile app folder and Amazon app folder have 9 apps and 6 apps, respectively. I also have 4 Facebook-owned apps on my phone.

It seems to me that Internet giants monopolized my attention over time and has slowly become the go-to choice for pretty much everything: reading, searching for information, socializing, shopping, and entertainment.

Why is my attention of value to Internet giants? As aggregator platforms (more on what defines aggregator is here), Facebook and Google charge advertisers for my attention by getting me interested in some particular content (i.e. search results in Google, or articles posted on Facebook). It’s a nice business model for them since they don’t even produce any content in the first place. Instead, they merely distribute someone else’s content.

To add to this, Facebook and Google initially gained wide adoption by offering their users a variety of options, but later focused on commoditizing content providers that helped them grow in the first place. Over time, the best entrepreneurs, developers, and investors have become wary of building on top of centralized platforms. The reason is that centralized platforms follow a predictable life cycle over time. Search for “S-Curve” in this article if you want to learn more about this evolution.

Back in my childhood, when the internet was at its infancy, we had an “intranet” built around our neighborhood back in Belarus. All of “intranet” users would collaborate, get to know each other, and share the content around. It felt like a collaborative system and a potential blueprint for how the Internet itself should evolve.

Why did the internet I remember as a collaborative ecosystem with numerous options evolved into such a centralized “walled garden” dominated by half a dozen companies?

Back at Internet infancy, Tim Berners-Lee and other early Internet creators envisioned it to be a decentralized system (more on this here). But as the web has grown from an obscure community of researchers, gamers, and other early adopters into a platform for commerce, communication, and entertainment, the decentralized nature of it seem to be fading away. As a result, there is a growing sentiment in the developer community that the pendulum has swung too far towards centralization.

Gladly, we now have a choice of how the Internet will evolve going forward.

During the peak of the 2008 financial crisis as Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy, someone named Satoshi Nakamoto published a 9 page paper about a peer-to-peer version of electronic cash, which could be sent from one party to the other without going through a traditional financial institution. It was a radically new version of the financial system and it took some time for this idea to really percolate through the community.

His ideas combined game theory, cryptography, and distributed computing to offer an alternative system in which participants could come to a consensus in a trustless environment. To follow up on Satoshi’s ideas and research, Vitalik Buterin in late 2013 suggested that arguably the most important part of the bitcoin experiment is the underlying blockchain technology as a tool for distributed consensus, and that it could be used to build applications involving having digital assets being directly controlled by a piece of code implementing arbitrary rules. Also known as “smart contracts”, this generalized approach to decentralized application development caught the attention of much larger community.

By now, the ideas of Bitcoin and Ethereum have materialized into thousands of servers running the blockchain software, and it seems like we are on the verge of a fork in terms of where the Internet as a whole could go. The internet could continue going towards more centralization and reliance on behemoths like Google, Amazon, and Facebook, or it could go back to where it was originally architected — peer-to-peer systems without a centralized authority or corporation taking advantage of the rest of the ecosystem.

The decision is in our hands. Decentralized applications could provide better security, privacy, and governance, but would require moving away from the convenience of using familiar services (i.e. Google, Facebook and others). Additionally, any systems costs money to run. In the world of blockchain, the miners are the ones who are compensated for providing computing resources to keep the overall system up to date. If there is no Facebook to take the cost on themselves (they can easily afford this cost since they make money off our data), the cost will be on users. So there is a tradeoff between convenience and “free” familiar service on one hand (subsidized by our data), and the service that’s free of middleman and more privacy friendly, but not quite free, on other hand. It’s yet unclear what the end users would prefer.

While Internet users need time to really understand the benefits of decentralized systems, the sentiment of the developer community is clear: the world will most definitely move towards more decentralized systems.

It will be quite difficult for an average developer to pick up “smart contracts” development skills (background in networking, distributed systems, data structures and cryptography is needed), but there are teams actively working on making developer experience better and lowering the barrier of blockchain development.

I think there will be use cases that will naturally evolve towards decentralized versions first. A decentralized exchange could replace NASDAQ. Decentralized writing platform could replace Medium. Decentralized indie gaming platform could replace Steam.

From the infrastructure perspective, underlying blockchain protocols don’t scale well to be able to run decentralized NASDAQ, Steam or Medium just yet. Projects like Ethereum, Zilliqa, and a dozen others are trying to solve scalability, but fall short for a variety of reasons. As we know, one game put the a lot of strain on Ethereum infrastructure. Clearly, a better, more scalable solution is needed.

I am excited to be a part of this movement by joining Near Protocol — the team that has built sharding for the commercial distributed database, MemSQL, and is now focused on solving the scalability for blockchain, which will in turn enable the wide variety of future decentralized applications built on top of a scalable blockchain architecture. Taking the experience of building distributed databases, we now focus on building a sharding solution for blockchain infrastructure (we will cover our approach in detail in future blog series). We believe that our approach will enable access to blockchain for mobile devices around the world, which will in turn provide an even higher degree of decentralization.

It’s really up to us, regular Internet users, to ultimately decide whether the Internet will be centralized, decentralized or somewhere in between. I encourage you to reach out to your friends who already work in blockchain space, learn, and contribute, and more importantly, understand the tradeoffs I briefly outlined above. Blockchain does surely seem to be a space that will create an Internet-scale tsunami of change over the next decade or two. I am well aware that majority of blockchain projects today are scams, but that’s how large-scale innovations start anyway. It will probably take several years to fix the scalability issues, and then we will have a clear shot at swinging the pendulum of the Internet back to the decentralized state. The future is NEAR.

To follow our progress you can use:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://near.chat
https://upscri.be/633436/

Thank you to Mikhail Kever & Bowen Wang for providing feedback in writing this blog post.
Built on NEAR: Celebrating Partners and Innovators at NEARCON ’23
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 13, 2023
Partnerships are one of the biggest pillars to expanding NEAR’s footprint. They help drive the ecosystem toward fostering new and innovative use cases that will bring the next billion users to the open web. And that’s exactly what’s happening on NEAR, with partnerships ranging from sports to social taking center stage. At NEARCON — the ultimate Web3 education — a number of NEAR partners will be on-hand to talk about Web3 partnerships and innovation. 

Throughout the past few years, NEAR has engaged, collaborated, and built with partners who share the vision of a decentralized, user-centric open web. Each partnership is contributing their unique, innovative flair to the ecosystem, with a scalable, user-friendly blockchain helping to propel their efforts.

As NEARCON ‘23 approaches, let’s celebrate and explore how NEAR’s collaborations and partnerships are shaping the future of the open web. By registering for and attending NEARCON ‘23, you’ll be able to meet some of the following founders, entrepreneurs, and innovators below.

And these names are just the tip of the iceberg, so don’t forget to register for NEARCON ‘23 and let’s take part in learning, networking, and building an open web together.

Register $99
Creating consumer fun and engagement in the open web
An area where NEAR partnerships are thriving is making the blockchain more fun and engaging for the masses. NEAR’s partnership with NFT launchpad Mintbase is a perfect illustration. Mintbase recently celebrated the traditional Indian festival, Raksha Bandhan, by seamlessly transforming photos into NFTs on the NEAR blockchain. 

During Raksha Bandan, sisters tie a good-luck talisman around the wrists of their brothers, a special moment often photographed and cherished by families. With Mintbase’s open web wallet built on NEAR, users could easily create an account without seed phrases and seamlessly upload their photos, transforming them into NFTs in an instant.

Let’s also toast to  GLASS, a one-of-a-kind Web3 platform that empowers alcohol brands to engage directly with consumers. Built on the NEAR blockchain, spirit brands can issue token rewards and other blockchain perks to social drinkers who try new cocktail recipes, socialize with friends, and vote on brand decisions. 

Gaming is also a key entry point into the open web, and NEAR’s partnership with PlayEmber is kicking the door wide open. PlayEmber’s creative gaming studio is fusing AAA quality mobile games on the blockchain, with NEAR providing the backend foundation. Decentralized mobile gaming experiences are now becoming more accessible to a wider audience.

Then there’s Cosmose AI’s KaiKai, a fusion of shopping, retail, and gamification dubbed”Shoppertainment.” Built on NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S), KaiKai offers a captivating brand discovery avenue, with features like Augmented Reality (AR) product interactions, exclusive product drops, and celebrity live streams. 

More than just a shopping app, KaiKai also uses a native cryptocurrency, Kai-Ching. Shoppers earn rewards with the help of Cosmose’s AI-powered personalization, all while transacting on the NEAR blockchain. It’s all about enhancing personalization, user empowerment, and engagements in the retail space with a unique, powerful blockchain twist.

And in a fusion of health and blockchain, Sweatcoin’s partnership with NEAR helps people earn SWEAT tokens with literally every step towards better fitness. With a user base of over 63 million who’ve clocked in more than 19 trillion steps, Sweatcoin and NEAR are incentivizing  healthier lifestyles.

Oleg Fomenko, co-founder of Sweatcoin, believes in the potential of merging health and blockchain, enabling users to “walk into the world of crypto.” This partnership, built on the NEAR blockchain, personifies the next level of open web adoption, encouraging physical wellness via crypto-based rewards.

Financial empowerment and innovation on NEAR
One of the biggest challenges that the open web is addressing is financial empowerment and inclusion. NEAR Foundation’s partnerships in this area are helping bring that vision to life. The Foundation’s collaboration with Proximity Labs is helping talented builders create innovative Web3 financial solutions, with substantial grants and support.

Calimero Network is another example of NEAR’s commitment to financial innovation. Calimero provides what’s called ‘private sharding’ infrastructure, a feature that ensures  data privacy in Web3 finance without sacrificing the power of open-source platforms. With both financial and technical support from NEAR, more business can be safely conducted on the blockchain.

Building the technical foundation for tomorrow’s open web
The ongoing partnership between NEAR Protocol and Octopus Network signifies the ecosystem’s infrastructure strides. Early on, Octopus Network selected NEAR as its “mother-chain” protocol citing speed ability to accommodate a large user base. Octopus Network and NEAR are paving the way for developers aiming to launch tailored applications using their own dedicated blockchains — also known as “Appchains” — making deployment a breeze.

Partnering with a tech infrastructure behemoth like Google Cloud is another way of giving Web3 startups pathways to world-class startup expertise. It’s all part of NEAR’s commitment to making blockchain solutions more accessible, robust, and primed for mainstream adoption.

In collaboration with Urbit, NEAR is also continuing to make the open web more user friendly. Urbit’s vision — shared and supported by the NEAR Foundation — is to improve the frontend experience of open web apps. Urbit allows developers to easily create sleek designs so that tomorrow’s decentralized applications are as seamless as the most popular ones in the App Store.

On another front, NEAR’s collaboration with SailGP is bringing Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) to professional sports, creating a bridge between leagues and fans. The introduction of a DAO-owned racing team on the NEAR Protocol gives fans a novel way to engage, interact with, and participate in active decision making along with teams and athletes.

Partnership innovation rolls on at NEARCON
Past, current, and future partnership will take center stage at NEARCON 2023 — now less than a month away. It’ll be four full days of full immersion into the NEAR ecosystem — a place for you to truly step into the open web. Build on the B.O.S and network with thousands of other blockchain enthusiasts. Get the inside scoop on onboarding Web2 companies into Web3 with Google Cloud’s James Tromans, and get the low down on SWEAT with Oleg Fomenko.

From raising a glass to blockchain brand loyalty with GLASS and setting sail towards new DAO horizons with SailGP, each and every NEAR partner is playing its own pivotal role in crafting how tomorrow’s open web experiences will look, feel, and even taste. Better decentralized infrastructure, financial empowerment, and exciting consumer experiences are just the start.

Ready to dive into sessions, hackathons, and more in Lisbon at NEARCON 2023? Go ahead and register now to secure your spot.
Announcing Ready Layer One: An Open Blockchain Week
COMMUNITY
April 6, 2020
Ready Layer One
Today we’re excited to announce an unprecedented collaboration between base layer blockchain projects to put on a free virtual summit for all of the builders out there. This multi-day event, called Ready Layer One, will take place from May 4-6, 2020. 

Why? People in the blockchain space are more distributed than a typical community, which means we *really* like to get together in person when we can. The explosive rise of COVID and associated stay-at-home orders suddenly left everyone without their favorite excuses to geek out on protocol theory and hack together over lousy wifi connections.

The spirit of collaboration has driven this technology forward from the start–the best projects are open source, their teams are always learning from each other, and it often feels like a small community. Since this macro shock is more significant than anyone’s project, rather than competing for space in an already crowded digital world, we decided to use this opportunity as a rallying cry to gather everyone together.

Open Blockchain Week
The past couple of years have seen several base layer protocols make outstanding progress in addressing the core issues of usability and scalability that have held back more widespread adoption. Some of these protocols are recently launched, and others, like NEAR, are on the home stretch.

Application developers are ready for it.

Enterprise adopters are ready for it.

Gamers are ready for it.

Fintech entrepreneurs are ready for it.

Even hodlers are ready for it.

…and the base layer protocols, also known as “layer one,” are finally ready to support all of these people and the apps that serve them. Hence, Ready Layer One. 

A New Digital Experience
Ready Layer One is specifically designed to be more than just a conference experience — it’s a place where developers can learn but also participate and connect in a way that’s atypical for the digital realm. To do this, we took the best parts of in-person hackerspaces and mixed them with some of the principles that create genuine and meaningful experiences in real life.

Ready Layer One is built around each of the following principles:

Collaborative Co-creation: We believe in the principles of free software and open-source, where groups of people who come together to share technology, skills, and ideas produce the most impactful results. Here, this means making workshops interactive and collaborative between participants wherever possible.
Participation, Presence, and Immediacy: We aim to create interactions that facilitate collaborative knowledge and enable you to construct new ideas with people from around the world. Dive in, be present, and build! We ask participants to shut down email and social apps so they can focus on being present. To keep things immediate, we’ll offer a number of experiences that will not be recorded for later.
Decommercialization: To encourage new technologies and ideas to be considered and take root, we kindly ask that everyone focus on the tech and its societal applications rather than sponsorships, branding, or pitching. This isn’t about one of us; it’s about all of us.
The content will include well-known speakers from across the ecosystem plus several tracks of engineering content targeted at helping developers get their hands dirty with all sorts of different use cases. We’ll have Easter eggs and surprise speakers crafting custom, small-scale experiences throughout to keep you on your toes. After it ends, we’ll all get together to apply what we’ve learned in a digital hackathon.

Getting Involved
Are you ready to join us in making Ready Layer One a success?

We’d like to keep the quality of content and attendees high, so tickets are limited. To learn more about the event, grab a free ticket or submit a workshop, register at https://readylayer.one/

We hope to see you there!
Armored Kingdom, Brave, JavaScript: Highlights from NEAR @ Consensus
COMMUNITY
June 12, 2022
The NEAR community was busy connecting at the Consensus conference this weekend in Austin, Texas. The NEAR Foundation made its presence felt in a variety of ways, from hosting educational developer workshops to panel discussions and speeches from key members of the ecosystem and Foundation.

From NEAR’s roadmap to raising crypto funds for Ukraine, here are the main takeaways from Consensus, Austin.

Major Dev Experience Announcements
NEAR Foundation’s presence at Consensus 2022 kicked off with opening remarks by CEO Marieke Flemant on the Foundations Stage. Flemant highlighted the NEAR Foundation’s continued commitment to sustainability and ecosystem growth before turning things over to NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, who presented a roadmap for the NEAR Protocol over the next 12 months along with some exciting news for developers.

After re-iterating the Foundation’s goal of onboarding the first one billion users onto Web3, Polosukhin announced that NEAR will soon be rolling out a JavaScript software development kit (SDK) within the next few months. Developers will then be able to build in JavaScript and ship code directly to NEAR. Polosukhin was particularly excited about this announcement because he feels that JavaScript is the language for mass developer adoption.

To piggyback on Polosukhin’s announcement, Josh Ford and Ben Kurrek from the developer relations team led a Test Drive Javascript for NEAR session on the Crypto Cities stage. Ford and Kurrek noted that with over seven million developers currently coding with JavaScript, the upcoming SDK release will prove extremely fruitful in user onboarding. 

Not to mention that Brendan Eiche, the inventor of JavaScript, attended both sessions and expressed his excitement about NEAR’s JavaScript SDK on Twitter.

The Web3 World According to NEAR
On the second day of Consensus, Flament gave a speech on the Feature Stage speech entitled “The Web3 World According to NEAR.” Building upon her opening remarks on day one, she painted a clearer picture of how Web3 and NEAR will evolve in the upcoming years and why she still believes that crypto can fulfill the promise of re-defining money and creating a more inclusive world.

Flament also addressed current market conditions and pointed out the importance of an even deeper commitment to building during a bear market. 

“We have much more talent, funding, and infrastructure than the last bear market,” Flamant observed. “While it seems that the world is filled with bad news, this is not the time for pessimism but for action. It’s urgent that we make even more progress at a faster pace than ever.”

Flament restated NEAR’s commitment to creating an open, inclusive Web3 based on the three pillars of Ownership, Community, and Incentives. Once self-sovereign individuals gain ownership and control over their data, Flament said that only then can we collectively fight exploitative behavior by Web2 giants. After the notion of ownership has been decentralized and turned on its head, Flament predicted that we can then re-think modes of incentivizing participation and building community.

And while Flament observed that some at Consensus were bearish on the “X to Earn” phenomena, in her opinion, the trend has barely scratched the surface. Sweatcoin continues to onboard users to NEAR and Web3 with their app. Not to mention SailGP and Armored Kingdom, projects and partners that are re-defining sports team ownership and entertainment with DAOs and NFTs.

She concluded by saying that NEAR is committed to providing tools to create a simple, sustainable, and scalable Web3 world. 

NEAR Helping Ukrainians in Need
Co-founder Illia Polosukhin re-emerged on the second day of Consusus to participate in a panel discussion around how crypto and the blockchain is being used to aid Ukraine during the ongoing war. The discussion was moderated by Emily Parker from CoinDesk, and included Valeriya Ionan Ukraine’s Deputy Minister of Digital Transformation as well as Mike Chobanian from the Blockchain Association of Ukraine.

Polosukhin recounted that when he heard the news about Ukraine, his first instinct was to find ways to personally donate to those affected by the conflict. He then started thinking bigger, and shortly thereafter the Unchain Fund was started on NEAR to raise funds via a DAO model. Unchain Fund raised over $10 million within the first few weeks and expanded to work with over 5,000 volunteers on the ground. Crypto has been a huge part of effective relief, said Polosukhin, as NGOs can sometimes be slow to respond immediately.

He then reminded the audience that there will be a time – hopefully soon – that the conflict comes to an end. And at that point, blockchain, crypto, and Web3 can play a crucial role in rebuilding Ukraine and even preserving cultural artifacts on the blockchain. Chobanian from the Blockchain Association of Ukraine added that they are currently in the proposal stage with NEAR to place NFT versions of important Ukrainian art and other artifacts on the blockchain in case the IRL versions are ever destroyed.

Armored Kingdom and Brave Announcements
Two of the biggest NEAR announcements that came out of Consensus were on the gaming and browser integration fronts. Firstly, Brave and NEAR will collaborate to integrate Aurora, an Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) on the NEAR Protocol, into Brave Wallet. This means greater multi-chain functionality in Brave Wallet and expanded utility for the Basic Attention Token (BAT).

“This is a very significant partnership for the future advancement of Web3 and mass adoption, offering a multi-chain integration bridging the Ethereum and NEAR communities via Aurora – and one of the first big integrations via Brave,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. 

“With the new Brave Wallet there will be a host of Web3 functionality supported such as NFT and Swap – all of which will provide the protection of a privacy-preserving, in-browser wallet that’s secure and mass-market ready.”

In addition, Deadline Hollywood broke the news that superstar actress Mila Kunis has partnered with superhero creator Sharad Devarajan of Graphic India to launch Armored Kingdom Media Inc, which will be a new entertainment franchise spanning a Web3 trading card game, digital comics, animation, and film built on NEAR.

“We are excited to support the launch of Armored Kingdom and the storytelling opportunities it will bring to fans,” said Flament. “NEAR is a perfect blockchain for an entertainment franchise as it can support various platforms, which is crucial for multiverse experiences across different mediums. Our focus on ease of use also allows developers to deliver intuitive experiences for a large fan base.”

Between the upcoming JavaScript SDK, Armored Kingdom launching on NEAR, and partnering with Brave, Consensus was extraordinarily eventful, demonstrating the strength and commitment of the entire ecosystem. The NEAR Foundation thanks all community members, builders, and partners that engaged at Consensus Austin, and looks forward to seeing many of the same faces at NEARCON this September in Lisbon!


NEARCON IRL Hackathon 2023: Build the Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 28, 2023
If you attended NEARCON last year, you know the 48-hour IRL hackathon — “Building Beyond the Hype” was a great event, with all sorts of exciting prototypes that helped propel NEAR through the last year.

For NEARCON 2023, which will be held November 7-10th, we’re leveling up the hackathon. This year’s hackathon explores NEARCON 2023’s theme — “Step into the Open Web”. And that hacking together apps and experiences that explore how the NEAR Protocol and Blockchain Operating System are paving the way for a truly open web.

Let’s explore what’s new for the NEARCON 2023 Hackathon. 


Hacker HQ: a space just for the hackers
Not only do hackers get into NEARCON 2023 for free, but they also get their own space. NEARCON’s Hacker HQ will be a place for hackers to hang out, network, and build — whether that’s for the Hackathon or if you’re just interested in continuing to build your project on NEAR. Hacker HQ will be located at: 

Armazem 16
R. Pereira Henriques nº1, 1950-242
Lisboa, Portugal

Hack the days and nights away for a chance to build on the BOS and win $140k+.

Important NEARCON Hackathon dates and information
The Hackathon is held November 7-10th.
November 7th — Hackathon orientation, team matching, and a welcome party hosted by NEARWEEK. 
November 8th — Day 1 of hacking. Mentoring available. 
November 9th — Day 2 of hacking. Mentoring available. Submission Deadline. 
November 10th — Pitch competition. 
Request a visa letter to support hackers’ visa applications. All requests must be submitted via the form by October 7, 2023. 
Travel stipends are available depending on your location. Please read the Hacker Stipend Guidelines. 
Stay tuned in the coming weeks for details on NEARCON IRL Hackathon bounties. 
NEAR Launches Nightshade Sharding, Paving the Way for Mass Adoption
DEVELOPERS
November 15, 2021
Today is a momentous day for the NEAR blockchain and the NEAR ecosystem: The launch of Simple Nightshade, the first step toward a fully sharded and secure blockchain. 

Since NEAR released the design for the protocol back in 2019, it was always meant to be a sharded blockchain. However, when preparing for the launch in early 2020, we realized that there was no need to launch a completely sharded network. 

Sharding is a very complex piece of technology – which we’ll be explaining in detail over the coming weeks on our Medium blog – and the network was brand new. It didn’t need to be capable of handling hundreds of millions of transactions at launch. 

Since then, the average number of daily transactions has risen to more than 300k. With the emergence of more and more projects building on NEAR, the number of transactions is only going to increase in the coming months. 

While the network is still currently using only 13% of the total capacity, we wanted to start the transition to sharding now to avoid any unpleasant surprises and ensure we can support all the applications on NEAR. Today is the start of that transition. 

Below, we’ll briefly discuss how sharding — a partitioning of the NEAR protocol — splits the work of processing transactions across many participating nodes. We’ll also offer some details on why this matters for NEAR’s booming community of developers and users.  

Simple Nightshade 
Today, the code for phase 0 was successfully deployed to the mainnet – it can take several hours or days for the code to be integrated by all network participants. 

This phase, nicknamed Simple Nightshade, will kickstart a year of changes and additions to the NEAR blockchain that when complete, will make it super-fast, incredibly secure, and capable of onboarding millions of users into the world of Web3 without skipping a beat. 

In this initial phase, we will shard the state, but not processing – meaning the blockchain will still be validated by all the network’s validators. The state will be split into four shards, significantly increasing the throughput of the network.  

Before sharding, blockchains would become congested as the project became more popular.
In this step, we have built a mechanism to split a shard into multiple parts through live upgrades, which will serve as the foundation for dynamic resharding in the future – more on that later. Meanwhile, because every shard is still validated by all validators, the safety guarantees remain the same. 

What does this mean for users? 
It means they get the same simple, easy-to-use experience, but with increased speed and performance. One of blockchain’s biggest challenges has been scalability: how does a network grow to handle increased activity without compromising on security? Our solution to that question is Nightshade Sharding.  

While there are many new blockchains claiming to have thousands of transactions per second (TPS) and many layer 2 scaling solutions, due to their non-sharded designs, they would all hit an upper limit of what the network could handle eventually. 

NEAR’s Nightshade Sharding, on the other hand, allows NEAR Protocol to scale linearly with the number of shards, thereby having the ability to satisfy the demand for transactions as more and more users start to use NEAR. Ultimately it prepares NEAR for mass consumer adoption of billions of users.

What does this mean for developers? 
Similar to users, developers will not have to change existing processes in order to take advantage of the increase in speed and scalability. 

Thanks to Nightshade’s homogeneous design, developers are not exposed to the details of sharding from the very beginning and they will remain unaffected by this upgrade. More specifically, internally we treat cross-contract calls the same regardless of whether two contracts are on the same shard. Therefore, developers should expect no changes to their experience of developing on NEAR.

What does Nightshade Sharding change about the network’s performance? 
While transactions per second are often used as a measure of a network’s speed, there are many other factors that go into how quickly a blockchain can verify a transaction. 

At NEAR, network congestion, transaction finality and cost are all parts of the puzzle when it comes to assessing how ‘quick’ a network is. For reference, for token transfers, on one shard we can do 800-1000 TPS and with the upcoming sharding with four shards, we will be able to do a minimum of 2500-3000 TPS.

Ultimately, NEAR’s Nightshade is theoretically limitless (by increasing the number of shards) and can handle millions of transactions per second. 

What comes after Phase 0? 
Late in 2022, Phase 1 will begin. In this phase, we introduce a new role: chunk-only producers, who only validate one shard. They produce chunks (shard blocks) for some specific shard and only need to run inexpensive hardware, without sacrificing the security of the network. 

The introduction of chunk-only producers also helps increase the total number of validators and improve the decentralization of NEAR as a whole. Once this phase is complete, we will have 200-400 validators and only a fraction of them (block producers) need to run more expensive hardware.

Phase 2: Nightshade
In this phase, we finish the implementation of challenges, thereby eliminating the need for any validators to track all the shards. Once this step is completed, both state and processing will be fully sharded. This will also further lower the hardware requirements of running a block producer on NEAR, making the network more accessible for validators. We expect to deliver phase 2 in 2023.

Phase 3: Dynamic Resharding
After phase 2 is complete, we will have a fully functional sharded mainnet with a fixed number of shards. In phase 3, we want to expand on that and create the ability for the network to dynamically split and merge shards based on resource utilization. This will make NEAR almost infinitely scalable and resilient to short-term usage spikes. We expect to deliver phase 3 in 2023.

Eventually, the network itself will dynamically adjust the number of shards based on their utilization and no validators will need to validate all the shards. 

Sharding is not the final phase of evolution for NEAR Protocol. Rather, we hope it’s just the beginning. We are simultaneously working on a number of improvements on the protocol level to build a secure, user-friendly, and scalable blockchain that can support mainstream usage and adoption. 

After sharding more and more validators could be recruited to ensure the network remains congestion free.
An ecosystem primed for growth
In addition to the work on the protocol by NEAR Inc, NEAR Foundation is creating an ecosystem for developers, entrepreneurs, and enterprises to thrive with ambitious funding programs including $800 million worth of global ecosystem funding (now valued at $1.2 billion). 

We’re also seeing a thriving gaming, metaverse, and NFT ecosystem emerging, not to mention a DeFi ecosystem that has gone from strength to strength since mainnet launch one year ago. 

For consumers, we’re making strides forward to make the crypto experience even easier to use. From simple, language-based wallet names, to two-factor authentication, and staking baked right into the wallet. 

This is just the beginning of a period of explosive growth at every level. We can’t wait to show you what’s coming next.

Get Started Today 
If you’re looking to build on NEAR, check out our developer resources. 

If you’re an entrepreneur and want to get started, head for our Founders space. 

If you’re looking to create DAOs and Guilds, check out our Community Page. 
NEAR in March: Unchain Fund, SailGP, and DAOs
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 1, 2022
The NEAR community’s extraordinary momentum continued into March, with a number of exciting launches, partnerships, hackathons, and more happening across the ecosystem. 

While the events unfolding in Ukraine had a profound effect on many of the teams in the NEAR ecosystem, projects continued to deliver on their roadmaps as a testament to the community’s resiliency and borderless collaboration. 

For a first hand account of what this experience was like, check out Maria Yarotska’s Medium post on her experience working on MetaBUILD II while fleeing the conflict. 

Let’s have a look at what happened throughout the NEAR ecosystem in March. 

NEAR and SailGP Partner on new DAO for sports teams
NEAR announced a multi-year partnership with SailGP, one of the world’s fastest growing sporting events, to explore the sale of a new team to a DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization) to be built on NEAR. The SailGP DAO will combine professional sports with community-focused engagement, bringing together sports fans and crypto users alike. 


This new DAO team could join the SailGP starting line-up for Season 4 in 2023. SailGP and NEAR will partner on a number of exciting new projects to inspire Web3 developers building on the blockchain, as well as collaborate on NFT and gaming, events ticketing, mobile app integration, and more. 

“We welcome NEAR to the SailGP family and we are looking forward to them participating in the most exciting racing on-water, featuring the world’s best sailors,” SailGP Founder Larry Ellison said.

Orange DAO selects NEAR as web3 startup partner
Shortly after partnering with Sail GP, NEAR Foundation announced another exciting project—this one with Orange DAO, a crypto collective created by Y Combinator alums that backs web3 startups. 

Orange DAO selected NEAR as its preferred layer 1 blockchain for web3. In return, NEAR Foundation will invest $15 million into Orange DAO to help support the founders who are building web3 companies on the NEAR blockchain.


“We are thrilled to have been selected by some of the brightest minds in the world as the preferred layer1 chain on which Orange DAO members will want to build,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “We know that community-driven innovation benefits everyone, and this partnership is simply another example of our mission in practice.”

Orange DAO will leverage NEAR’s strengths to back past, present, and aspiring Y Combinator founders. The DAO will do this by helping founders apply to and get accepted into YC; funding pre-and post-YC projects; as well as mentoring founders and helping with recruitment and customer acquisition where possible.

NEAR Foundation’s funding of Orange DAO will vest over four years, and the Foundation will also support YC founders with time and resources. 

Unchain Fund launches DAO to collect donations for Ukraine
On February 25, Unchain Fund, a new DAO fund, launched on the NEAR ecosystem to help collect crypto donations for citizens caught up in the conflict in Ukraine. 

Created on AstroDAO, a DAO-launching platform built on NEAR, Unchain Fund raises funds for humanitarian purposes in Ukraine, including evacuation, shelter, food, and more. 


In under a month, Unchain collected over $7 million USD and counting across a range of cryptocurrencies including, BSC, ETH, Harmony, NEAR, and Polygon. 

Over 700 volunteers are currently helping out with Unchain Fund in one way or another, and the effort continues to grow.

“Crypto became the largest driver for humanitarian help as well as some of [the] military help for Ukraine,” said Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR. “You can create a full system, an NGO system in days. Instead of [the] months it would take to create a new nonprofit, set up bank accounts, get all the legal structure, make sure that people can wire money to it without problems.”

MetaBUILD 2 hackathon winners
Over the last three months, NEAR developers and entrepreneurs from around the globe have been building projects for the MetaBUILD 2 hackathon. This virtual-physical event was a great opportunity to witness the NEAR Community’s creativity and innovation. 

By building on NEAR’s simple, scalable, and secure blockchain, the MetaBUILD 2 hackathon projects are helping lay the foundation for a better future. A future in which millions of new users and developers create and share completely new journeys.

Like the first hackathon, MetaBUILD 2 offered a total of $1 million in prizes. Nearly 4,000 participants joined, submitting over 356 projects—of which, 186 were eligible—for NFTs, DeFI, Gaming, DAOs, infrastructure apps and tools, and EVM apps. 

For the NEAR MetaBUILD 2 hackathon, there were Welcome and Natives tracks, as well as 35 Sponsor Challenges.

Check out the list of winning MetaBUILD 2 projects. 

NearPay debit card bridges crypto and fiat
Earlier this month, NearPay, the NEAR ecosystem’s first debit card and payments widget, announced its waitlist. NearPay had hoped to attract 1,000 users but the wait list grew to 18,000 in less than a week. 

Built by Switzerland-based Kikimora Labs,  NearPay bridges fiat and crypto in a single seamless user experience. Slated for a late 2022 release, NearPay debit will be both a physical card and mobile-based app, with feature sets designed for consumers, developers, and merchants, allowing individuals, businesses, and other organizations to make instant transactions and payments using their preferred cryptocurrency, including NEAR. 

“The cards will be NEAR-oriented but support other cryptocurrencies as well,” says Ivan Ilin, Chief Operating Officer at NearPay. “For businesses, we support two scenarios: fiat-to-crypto to a user’s wallet and fiat-to-crypto to a merchant’s wallet for a certain order. We work with NFT marketplaces, DeFi projects, and many others.”

“For developers, we provide a simple API with an SDK,” he adds. “The integration is possible with a website or a mobile application. We provide a merchant dashboard where one can see all the transaction statistics.”

A Deep Dive into DAOs
If 2021 was the year of the NFT, then 2022 is the year of the DAO. As Web3’s popularity continues to grow amongst end-users and developers, so has the interest in and launches of DAOs. And it’s easy to see why: these decentralized autonomous organizations empower communities instead of centralizing data, power, and money in the hands of big Silicon Valley firms. 

To capture the explosive growth of DAOs on the NEAR ecosystem, the NEAR Foundation published a 5-part series on these unique Web3 creations, including a DAO primer, a spotlight on NEAR’s DAO launchpad Astro, life-changing DAOs, and more. 

Capsule.Social’s Blogchain launches writer program for Ukrainian migrants
Capsule.Social’s Blogchain, a decentralized publishing platform for writers, launched this month and quickly followed this up with a new writer program designed for Ukrainian migrants. Through this program, a number of Ukrainian writers have been sharing their personal stories, experienced during Russia’s war on Ukraine. 


Blogchain gives these Ukrainians and many other writers a user-friendly interface, created with powerful decentralized functionality, that also includes censorship-resistant content hosting, payment to creators in either crypto or fiat money, and community governance. 

Follow the Capsule.Social Twitter for stories from Ukrainians and other writers publishing on the decentralized Blogchain platform. 

ICYMI: NEAR’s Road to Decentralization
In early March, NEAR Foundation published a 4-part series “Road to Decentralization”, in which it explore the various ways in which the network is being decentralized to the community. 

Since launch, NEAR Foundation has been committed to decentralizing the network as part of the larger effort to build a fast, secure, and scalable blockchain.

For the full details on this process, read “Road to Decentralization” parts:

1: Decentralization Road Map
2: A Deep Dive into Aurora
3: Empowering the Guild Community 
4: Building Bridges

NEAR Developer Research: Validating the NEAR DevX Tech Stack – Round 2
DEVELOPERS
October 29, 2020
Update: We’ve quickly filled up the available sessions for this round of research, and will not be taking on any more participants. The post will remain on the blog for those interested in getting a peek at what we’re up to. For those interested in participating, check back for round 3!

After a successful first round of research diving into the developer experiences of AssemblyScript and Rust earlier this month, we’re back in action with ROUND 2. This is a compensated opportunity to contribute to the future success of NEAR and help shape the future of developer experience for the community.

Validating the NEAR DevX Tech Stack
The next big decision we welcome the community to participate in is how we will support AssemblyScript in addition to Rust as a WASM source. We want to test our assumptions about the value propositions of these languages with community developers in order to make an informed, evidence based decision on what we choose to support, and to what extent.

Round 1 of this initiative focused on reading and discussing a set of pre-written contracts.

For Round 2, we want to walk through setting up and deploying a simple contract with our developer participants in order to compare and contrast the experience between languages. If selected, participants who complete a session with us will be compensated with $50 of value in the form of a gift card or tokens depending on location.

If interested in participating, fill out this invite form to connect with our team. You do not have to have participated in Round 1 to participate in Round 2.

What you’ll do
It’s easy to join and we’re open to feedback from community members from around the world. After a quick survey and remote interview we’ll ask you to complete a few simple dev tasks and provide your feedback to the team.

Pre-interview Survey
New participants will be asked to complete a short pre-interview survey about their development experience to help us categorize feedback. 
Remote Interview (15 min)
At the start of the session, new participants will be interviewed about their development experience and their opinions about the tools that we’re testing. 
Remote Technical Exercises (35 – 60min)
Each participant will be asked to complete a series of short tasks focused on customizing a smart contract on NEAR, and to share their thoughts along the way.

Participants will be asked to:
Use create-near-app to generate new projects in Rust and AssemblyScript
Edit contract code to pass a set of pre-written unit tests
Build and deploy the contract to the NEAR Testnet
Verify that the contract works as expected and troubleshoot any issues
You’re a great fit if you fall into any of the following categories:
… you’re a developer with experience in Javascript / Typescript

… you’re a developer with experience in AssemblyScript

… you’re a developer with experience in Rust

… you’re a developer with experience in Solidity

… you’re interested in getting some hands-on time with some of the basic NEAR developer tooling.
NEAR Wallet’s Evolution in 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 11, 2023
NEAR Foundation and Pagoda, along with the Wallets Working Group, have conducted extensive community discussions over the last several months about the evolution of wallets in the NEAR ecosystem. In keeping with the Foundation’s goal to empower the community and continue to decentralize the ecosystem over time, the focus since NEARCON has been to expand the wallet offerings to NEAR users and to decentralize the NEAR Wallet.   

MyNearWallet is now open source and under the stewardship of Developer DAO to maintain as a public good. (Pagoda took over MNW after Kikimora ceased operations in December due to funding issues.) DevDAO announced this week that they are accepting applications for teams to take over maintenance of MyNearWallet to evolve the product while keeping it open source for the benefit of the developer community. For more information about how to apply, visit the Developer DAO gigs board on NEAR Social. 

If you have been using MyNearWallet or wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com, you don’t need to take any action. MyNearWallet service will not be interrupted in this transition and, in fact, users can expect product improvements over time from the chosen maintainer team. The goal is to offer more wallet options to users across the NEAR ecosystem and to decentralize the development of wallet products across the developer community. 

Pagoda will continue maintaining wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com. Over time, the NEAR wallet will integrate into the forthcoming NEAR Discovery product. But for now, no action is needed from users. Legacy wallet users may consider migrating to another wallet now that an expanded range of options is available via Wallet Selector, which will soon live on wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com. Numerous wallets optimizing for a variety of user types, security requirements, and use cases are already available, with more on the way in Q1. 

NEAR’s commitment to serving as the de facto entry point to Web3 remains intact. Building without limits is about continuously improving on industry standards and delivering the best possible experiences to developers and users alike. 
The Creator Economy in Practice: Arroz Estúdios
CASE STUDIES
April 12, 2021
Arroz Estúdios is a Lisbon based Art Studio that has been open for more than two and a half years. With more than eight thousand members, the studio space boasts a physical area of fourteen Estúdios, two galleries, a co-working space, an outdoor bar and pizzeria, a garden and a venue capable of fitting more than 500 people. Arroz Estúdios is the future of the creator economy, and a fast learner of all things relating to the intersection of Art and Crypto. 

As one of the biggest projects of its kind in the city of Lisbon, Arroz started experimenting with Createbase, Digital Art and Non-Fungible Tokens in the fall of 2020. After successfully having launched a physical / digital art exhibition earlier this year, Arroz Estúdios has partnered up with the NEAR Foundation to host another exhibition for aspiring artists – this time with studio space available for low income artists! 

Planting A.I.R. (Artists in Residence)! 
Having secured funding from the NEAR Foundation, Arroz Estúdios is hosting a first-of-its kind event that will provide five artists with a four to eight week residency. 

During this time, the artists will not only have the opportunity to dive into the emerging world of digital art, they will also be documenting their journey for the NEAR community of creators to follow along. As stated in the proposal, Arroz Estúdios offers the following as part of the program: 

Studio space
Learning resources
Equipment & Materials
Career support & development
Workshops (with our studio holders Art Progression Now)
Exhibition opportunities (inside the Estúdios and with Art Progression Now)
How To Apply?
A three week open call was launched last week. Interested artists can submit past work, their educational background, their artistic field of interest, existing portfolio, project proposal, detailed project schedule, CV and motivational letter. 

For more information in Portuguese click here. If you are ready to apply, the Open Call Submission Form can be filled out here. 

“We have had about 50 people already apply to exhibit with us for the next Rare Effect Exhibition, which is a huge uptake relative to the last one. The NFT space is changing so rapidly: Reaching out to people now compared to 6 months ago – everyone knows what an NFT is which means we can reach out to more artists, while also putting forward a great opportunity for Portuguese Artists!” – Steven 


A New Frontier For Artists: The Creator Economy
Createbase is a community for creators/projects on Mintbase, an NFT minting platform on NEAR which is also based out of Lisbon- a growing hub for crypto and tech. 

With artists from all over the world familiarizing themselves with NFTs and the future of creator owned, creator distributed art, Arroz Estúdios is pioneering one of the first physical spaces for jumpstarting a creator economy in Lisbon. The goal of the initiative aligns with the fundamental values grounding the original development and growth of Arroz Estúdios:

To promote freedom of expression. To provide a safe space for anyone coming to the studio to create anything they would like to express or imagine. 
To integrate with local communities and to promote Portuguese art on an international level. In the context of the Planting A.I.R. event, this will provide low-income artists in Portugal with a platform to showcase their art to the world. 
To bring international artists to Lisbon and Portugal for both events and learning purposes. 
As with previous events, Arroz Estúdios will be using the upcoming Planting A.I.R. project launch to attract musicians and artists from around the world to the growing creative hub in Lisbon. 

To find out more about the Arroz Studio event check out their approved proposal here. To join the growing community of Artists on NEAR Protocol, jump into the Createbase telegram chat! 

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started.
NEAR After NEARCON In Numbers
COMMUNITY
September 30, 2022
Anyone who made the trip to Lisbon for NEARCON 2022, or tuned in via the YouTube livestream or Twitter, knew NEARCON was a smashing success. The vibe was something to behold. From devs and builders to other visionaries and champions of NEAR, NEARCON showcased the ecosystem and community at its very best—with boundless energy for creating without limits. 

This is an energy that was also palpable to the press. Everything came together to produce  awe-inspiring momentum that is being sustained well beyond NEARCON’s aftermath.

Let’s take a look at NEAR by the numbers in the wake of NEARCON to see just how the NEAR community is building without limits. 

20M Accounts and 200M Transactions 
Coming out of NEARCON, the total amount of NEAR accounts hit a new high of 20 million. To be sure, this was an ecosystem and community effort. But Sweat Economy, who presented at NEARCON, is responsible for onboarding 14 million new users into the NEAR ecosystem with their move-to-earn app. That’s 20x growth since this time last year! 

Thanks to NEAR’s Nightshade sharding—Phase 1 of which was announced at NEARCON—this onboarding of the masses unfolded without a hitch. This example of NEAR’s infinite capacity is proof that it can welcome millions more users across the 800+ apps running on the protocol.

Earlier this month, NEAR also hit a new milestone of 200 million on-chain transactions. Next up? 250 million. The ecosystem is growing by leaps and bounds, and doing so in a crypto winter. 

21 Global Media Partners
NEARCON was a major hit this year with members of the international press.  All told, the conference attracted 21 global media partners, with CoinDesk leading the pack as NEAR’s top tier sponsor.  

Other major media outlets joined NEAR from around the world, including Cointelegraph, the Defiant, Coinpost Japan, W3volution Spain, and Business Insider Africa. 

Over 250 Pieces of Media Coverage
Naturally, with so many global media partners, there is quite a lot of great news to share. Seven NEAR announcements and five partnership stories were pushed out to the global media.  All together these ecosystem stories attracted 256+ pieces of coverage including a fantastic show roundup video by CryptoBanter, a hugely influential crypto YouTube channel that has over half a million subscribers. 

While US media outlets led with most of the NEARCON coverage, NEAR’s flagship conference also saw consistent reporting from media in India, Korea, Vietnam and beyond. 

Media Coverage Breakdown by Country
Africa – 5 pieces of coverage
Brazil – 5 pieces of coverage
China – 5 pieces of coverage
French – 8 pieces of coverage
German – 2 pieces of coverage
Italy – 4 pieces of coverage
India – 18 pieces of coverage
Japan – 2 pieces of coverage
Korea – 11 pieces of coverage
Spain – 5 pieces of coverage 
UK – 12 pieces of coverage
US – 25 pieces of coverage
Vietnam – 5 pieces of coverage
Global – 150+pieces of coverage
$100M Entertainment Fund
Perhaps the biggest story to come out of NEARCON was the launch of NEAR’s $100 million entertainment fund. It captivated the press, appearing in coverage from international news outlets such as CoinDesk, International Business Times, Journal Du Coin France, China’s leading crypto title Panony , CoinPost Japan and Coin Press Korea.

And rightly so. By partnering with Caerus for this new $100 VC Fund and Lab, NEAR will help push new Web3 innovation in culture, media, and entertainment. This fund now places NEAR at the forefront of changing how creative projects are financed, produced, and distributed, as well as how it’s consumed, owned, and monetized. 

11 Visionary ‘Women of Web3 Changemakers’
Another big campaign launched at NEARCON—the Women of Web3 Changemakers. A partnership with Forkast News, thisinitiative celebrated 11 exceptional women shaping the future of Web3. 

The campaign attracted a great deal of interest from a global audience, with mentions in CoinDesk, Fintech Finance, and Yahoo Finance.  

NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) and Phase 1 Sharding announcements
NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin gave an exclusive interview with CoinDesk about the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC). This interview was syndicated in various media outlets across Africa, Brazil, and China.  

CoinDesk also covered NEAR’s Phase 1 Sharding news, which made significant waves in the developer community as well as international headlines. Meanwhile, Pagoda announced their Pagoda Console—a ‘one stop’ tool shop that gives devs all the kit they need to build Web3 apps. 

NEAR hubs launch in India and Vietnam
NEARCON also witnessed the launch of two major regional hubs—Vietnam and India.  NEAR Foundation worked closely with the Vietnamese press to amplify the story locally, and with great success. Vietnam’s major tech titles covered the announcement, including Zing news.

NEAR Foundation replicated this approach with India’s media outlets, garnering coverage in major titles such as YourStory, the local equivalent of TechCrunch. Interviews were also secured with Reuters, Bloomberg and Times of India. 

Other stories from the NEAR ecosystem
NEAR Foundation pushed out announcements on Tether (USDT) going live on NEAR, Sender Wallet’s $3.5 million funding round, and Few and Far’s ambition to grow the NEAR NFT ecosystem. There were also announcements for NEAR’s partnership with Fireblocks, which will bring innovative crypto technologies to new global institutional investors, and SWEAT Economy’s tokenomics. 

As with many of the other stories and announcements from NEARCON, these stories had mass global appeal. Coverage could be found in The Block, Cointelegraph,  Forbes India, and  CryptoTVPlus Africa.

The sheer amount of positive press comes at a critical time for NEAR. The entire ecosystem and the wider Web3 world are building through a crypto winter but also battling other macroeconomic forces, post-Covid trauma, and climate change. It’s a time for resilience and creativity in how the NEAR and Web3 communities rethink and refashion the internet, and more importantly, the world. 

NEARCON demonstrated to the people across the globe that the protocol, ecosystem, and community will not be deterred. Builders and investors are still flocking to NEAR to build the next generation of decentralized apps. 

This is what creating without limits looks like. And it’s just the beginning!


Chain Signatures Launch to Enable Transactions on Any Blockchain from a NEAR Account
DEVELOPERS
March 26, 2024
Today at BUIDL Asia in Seoul, Korea, NEAR Co-Founder and NEAR Foundation CEO Illia Polosukhin announced the launch of Chain Signatures on NEAR. Chain Signatures enable NEAR accounts, including smart contracts, to sign transactions for any blockchain. This is powered by a decentralized MPC network which uses NEAR staking and Eigenlayer ETH restakers for security. Chain Signatures currently supports Bitcoin, Ethereum, Cosmos chains, DogeCoin, and XRP Ledger and will soon support Solana, TON Network, Polkadot, and others. 

How Chain Signatures Work

Chain signatures introduce threshold signatures for any blockchain, controlled by NEAR accounts & smart contracts. A NEAR account, which can also be a smart contract thanks to the NEAR account model, can request that the NEAR validators or MPC nodes sign an arbitrary payload, which could be a transaction for some other blockchain, and get a signed payload back to then send to the destination chain.

This is made possible by building an account-based decentralized Multi-Party Computation (MPC) network, allowing NEAR accounts to control multiple addresses on various chains and ensuring that the users are the only ones who can request signatures for transactions. Chain Signatures uses an account-based pattern, as opposed to a deposit-based or bridge-based pattern, as most other MPC networks currently in production do. The Chain Signatures MPC network functions as a decentralized signer for NEAR accounts and smart contracts, managing requests to addresses on different blockchains while placing zero burden on the user to manage these.

The first of its kind, Chain Signatures is a major advancement in DeFi adoption by enhancing cross chain interoperability and unlocking a new variety of use cases for mainstream users and Web3 builders. Chain signatures makes it easier to build DeFi products for particular chains and assets (while utilizing assets from other chains e.g. USDC/T, SOL, etc). For example, users can use XRP as collateral to borrow USDC, or trade DOGE for SOL. The launch of Chain Signatures delivers an elevated user experience that simplifies the transaction process while increasing accessibility to liquidity on non-smart contract chains such as Bitcoin, DogeCoin, XRP Ledger, and more. This also means that Chain Signatures let app developers serve all ecosystems at once from one interface rather than having to commit to a single chain or pool of liquidity.

The Chain Signatures MPC network is launching with Eigenlayer as a key partner and will be secured by Eigenlayer ETH restakers and NEAR stakers. The initial operator set is a trust-minimized network of ten node providers, which includes some top Eigen AVS infrastructure providers, using a Proof of Authority security model at launch. The future state is a permissionless network of node operators based on staking requirements and slashing conditions, planned to roll out in the coming months.

Multichain Gas Relayer

Launching alongside Chain Signatures is the Multichain Gas Relayer, which removes the need to have the native gas token of another chain in order to transact. This is a big hurdle for users today, often requiring purchasing multiple tokens on exchanges and sending them to different accounts just to complete a single cross-chain action. Now, with the Multichain Gas Relayer, users can just use NEAR or NEP-141 tokens to cover gas on any chain, not just NEAR or EVM chains.

This unlocks true multichain account abstraction. Whereas cross-chain bridges vary significantly depending on which assets are bridging to which chains, chain signatures makes transacting on smart contract and non-smart contract chains possible from a single account or interface, while simultaneously unlocking liquidity that wouldn’t have been accessible before.

For a longer technical deep dive on Chain Signatures and the Multichain Gas Relayer, see this post from February 2024 about NEAR account aggregation technologies. 

New Web3 Design Patterns with Chain Signatures

Chain Signatures unlocks a range of powerful new use cases for application builders and DeFi developers while also enabling much simpler user interfaces across different contexts. Smart contracts on NEAR will be able to custody assets on any chain (since they can sign transactions on any chain via chain signatures), and maintain user balances similar to how single chain lending protocols or DEXs do now. For example, a user will be able to atomically swap their BTC in a Bitcoin account for another user’s ETH in an Ethereum account. This works because they can first deposit into accounts on these respective chains that are fully controlled by a NEAR smart contract, which will then settle the trade and allow the user’s to withdraw their “new” assets post-trade.

DeFi on non-smart contract chains: NEAR smart contracts can sign transactions for non-smart contract chains like Bitcoin, Celestia, Bittensor, XRP Ledger, and others. This enables DEXs, lending protocols, and other DeFi apps to be built using the native assets of these chains, unlocking previously inaccessible liquidity. 
Bridgeless cross-chain DeFi: Since NEAR smart contracts can custody assets on any chain, users can build truly cross chain applications such as RFQs, orderbooks, AMMs, lending protocols, and more. It is also possible to build swaps and other apps without bridges and message passing layers, meaning that new chains and assets can be added at launch. Additionally, chain signatures can be used to build two-way bridges to non-smart contract chains, using NEAR as the intermediate chain.
Multichain Account Abstraction: A single NEAR account can manage any number of accounts on any number of chains. This means users can get ERC 4337-like functionality (natively supported by NEAR) without deploying any new smart contracts (so they can use non-EVM and non-smart contract chains), or needing to update their accounts on each individual chain. Chain Signatures also enables users to pay for gas costs on various chains with USDC, including non-EVM chains.
Instantly multichain apps at launch: Thanks to Chain Signatures and the Multichain Gas Relayer, app developers don’t need to commit to a single chain when they start building––now, they can make many chains accessible to their users immediately after launching and dramatically increase their addressable market of users. 
Advancing the Chain Abstraction Vision

Chain Signatures advances the NEAR ecosystem’s vision of Chain Abstraction, or the idea that Web3 hurdles should be abstracted away from user interfaces for the sake of simplicity and accessibility. Many of these hurdles arise with multichain use cases as users need to deal with long lists of accounts on different chains, manually move assets between them, and manage all the related security. Now, with Chain Signatures, users can simply create and secure one account and then start transacting on any network in Web3. Chain Signatures also help dapp developers deliver better multichain experiences to their users and get access to all available liquidity across blockchains.

As Illia noted, “Since day one, the NEAR ecosystem has focused on simplifying access to Web3 for developers and mainstream users. Chain Signatures is the next step in that journey, making it significantly easier to transact on any blockchain while also defragmenting liquidity across the ecosystem. This will enable the next generation of truly decentralized apps to deliver much more powerful experiences and address the entire market of Web3 users.”

Live Use Cases In the Ecosystem

Several projects in the NEAR ecosystem are already building with Chain Signatures to introduce new design patterns and experiences to users. More information on the node provider ecosystem as well as news about additional projects building with Chain Signatures across Web3 is coming in the next few weeks.

SWEAT Economy, a top ten most used decentralized app (dApp), utilizes Multichain Gas Relayer to let users send transactions from NEAR to BNB chain and pay for the gas in SWEAT tokens earned in-app.
East Blue, a Bitcoin Layer 2, uses NEAR Chain Signatures to develop Bitcoin DeFi use cases that were not possible until now, providing a new way to extend Bitcoin with smart contract logic. 
LiNEAR is building a multichain, multi-asset restaking framework on top of Eigenlayer, enabling non-ETH assets including NEAR to be restaked and used for securing applications.
Mintbase, an NFT infrastructure platform, enables NEAR-based Mintbase wallet holders to purchase Ethereum NFTs directly.
Start Building with Chain Signatures

Chain Signatures makes possible a range of new use cases for Web3 developers and users alike, opening up an exciting new design space and expanding the landscape of multichain apps and experiences utilizing Chain Abstraction. 

Builders and developers interested in getting started with Chain Signatures can visit the documentation or explore code examples and begin building today. Projects looking for support implementing Chain Signatures can register their interest here.
NEAR Validator Upgrade Allows Hundreds To Help Secure The Network
DEVELOPERS
November 29, 2021
Since the NEAR Mainnet launch in October 2020, we have seen steady growth in the number of validators. Today, NEAR has roughly 60 validators on mainnet, with many more wanting to join. Nevertheless, the extremely high threshold of 3.6M $NEAR makes it challenging for new validators to join. 

This was certainly not our intention when we designed the current validator selection algorithm more than three years ago. That’s why we’re upgrading our validator process. 

At present, the issue with the current algorithm is that the maximum number of validators allowed by the protocol is only achievable when everyone has an equal amount of stake. In practice, this is unrealistic. 

The NEAR Ecosystem is working to add more validators to the blockchain to further decentralize the network. After reviewing a number of options, we made the decision to change the protocol’s validator selection process. This will take place in two steps: the top 100 proposals by stake amount will be listed as potential validators. The second step will be to ensure the number of tokens staked is high enough to maintain the security of the network. While 3.5 million $NEAR is very high, we want to avoid making the new number too low.

Improving access, one step at a time
Compared to the existing selection algorithm, this seemingly simple change requires a lot of heavy lifting behind the scenes. NEAR’s target block speed of 1 second means that any validator selection process must be extremely fast while continuing to maintain the security of the network. This means the change requires very fast sampling from a discrete probability distribution. 

NEAR’s core developer team is happy to announce that this change has now been implemented, allowing more validators to join NEAR. This is great news for validators as it will dramatically reduce the barrier of entry to mainnet and makes it easier for them to maintain their seats. If more than 100 proposals are submitted, the threshold will simply be the stake of the 100th proposal, provided that it’s larger than the minimum threshold*. 

We expect to reach 100 validators soon after Mainnet is upgraded to this change—leading to a 60% increase in the number of validators we have active today. Other than the change to the validator selection process, everything else remains the same. Validators still produce blocks proportional to their stake and receive rewards accordingly.

This change is only the beginning of a number of ecosystem-wide initiatives that will continue increasing the number of validators and improving network decentralization. With the upcoming launch of phase 1 of sharding in early 2022, we expect to add another 200 validators to Mainnet. 

NEAR has always been, and will always be committed to building a secure, scalable, and decentralized network to help onboard the world into web3. To take advantage of the upcoming expansion, and to onboard validators onto the NEAR Mainnet, we have collaborated with the Open Shard Alliance to release a bootcamp to help train new validators. 

If you’re interested in joining our bootcamp, you can find more information here. 

If you’d like to start running your nodes on Testnet and Mainnet, head to the Open Shards Alliance server on Discord. 

* The minimal threshold depends on the total amount of stake, which at this point we estimate it to be 67,000 NEAR.
NEAR Community Update: April 5, 2019
COMMUNITY
April 5, 2019
We’ve already open sourced our code on Github so developers can follow along as the blockchain and its tooling comes together. Frankly, open-sourcing the protocol development is table stakes and every credible next-generation protocol has already done this.

As we begin expanding our ecosystem and polishing up the application layer that supports developers and their end-users, we’d also like to apply a similar openness to our other development efforts. To that end, we’re experimenting with an “open design” process where anyone can see our product development work on Discord in the #PRODUCT channels. Join us and jump in.

Let’s build the future together.

Community and Events
Congratulations to the 3 winning teams at the Nueva Hacks hackathon, “Team H II R” (addressing teen depression), “Credit Secured” (better credit scores) and “Team Biased” (eliminating media bias).

Recent Events

[Berlin] Mar 25: NEAR, Fluence and Cosmos DevNet and MainNet Demo Night
[SF] Mar 27: Unblocked SF with Erik Trautman of NEAR Protocol
[SF] Mar 28: Decentralized Computing with WASM @ Github
[Uruguay] Mar 29: Rust Latam conference
[San Mateo] Mar 30–31: Nueva Hacks Hackathon
Upcoming Events

[Sydney] April 8–13: EdCon
[SF] April 10: NEAR, Cosmos & Fluence: Devnet & Mainnet Demo Night I
[Santa Clara] April 11: NEAR, Cosmos & Fluence: Devnet & Mainnet Demo Night II
[Fremont] April 20: Launch Hacks hackathon
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

Writing and Content
The whiteboard series continues to be a great opportunity for projects to get credible technical exposure and for us to learn from exceptional founders. More in the queue!

Ep12: James Prestwich from Summa
Ep13: Tom Close from Magmo
Unqualified Opinions interview with Ryan Selkis of Messari
Our technical documentation also continues to improve every day thanks to heroic efforts from the dev and dev rel teams.

Engineering Highlights
On the application/development layer, we’ve open-sourced our product development process. Now, anyone can contribute on our chat (http://near.chat) in the #product channels. On the blockchain layer, we’ve been working hard to stabilize and improve the performance on our multi-node TestNet (pre-release). We’ve also added support for containerized deploys!

As an anecdote, @Evgeny built a Pokedex live at a WASM meetup hosted by Github. Later, someone said the live demo was so smooth and fast they thought we were cheating by having planted a suggestion in the audience.

There were 54 PRs in nearcore from 10 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

Blockchain Layer

Implemented scripts for managing TestNet in the cloud and locally using Docker and GCP. Check out how to do it in the docs.
Consolidated testing infrastructure for DevNet and TestNet
Implemented layer to manipulate network traffic (similar to Linux traffic control) used for testing
Application/Development Layer

Command line tool now includes local template generation that includes the ability to test against apps deployed to devnet
Devs can now build a contract, deploy to DevNet and deploy a front end to GitHub Pages with `npm run deploy` from template projects
Continued work on improving receipts for cross-contract calls.
Added persistent collections to NEAR AssemblyScript library
Integrated NEAR, React and next.js at our internal hackathon with a fun toy and a cuter example.
Updated the UI for the debugger.
Made example chess game deployed on GitHub Pages
How You Can Get Involved
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends 🙂

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.
Future of Blockchain Hackathon: NEAR Recap
COMMUNITY
May 21, 2020
NEAR participated in the Future of Blockchain Hackathon hosted by StakeZero Ventures. The hackathon started in December 2019 and continued until March 2020.

We would like to thank StakeZero Ventures for hosting the event, and all those amazing participants, whom we had a chance to meet and get started building on NEAR. 

What made this hackathon special?
We want to make our resources available for all developers, no matter their technical background and experience with blockchain technologies. To engage students across our initiatives we place extra focus on creating accessible resources, on working directly with university clubs and participating in academic initiatives like the Future of Blockchain Hackathon.

In most crypto-related hackathons, participants are either long-time developers from the web2 space or already familiar with developing decentralised applications (dApps). In comparison, the Future of Blockchain Hackathon creates a space for students to get started developing on blockchains by providing more time. Rather than taking place over a weekend, participants have a much longer period to build. In the end, participants are able to showcase a more thoughtful, in-depth project.

For further information, head over to their blog.

NEAR had more than a dozen teams sign up to participate from a range of backgrounds including everyone from PhD candidates to undergraduate students. Overall, most of the students who participated had never read into blockchain before. Thus, their approach to new challenges was quite different to developers, who already have a mental model in place on how they like to solve challenges. 

Ultimately, 10 teams submitted a final project, which moved forward into the judging phase. 

Prizes
For the full prize list and projects that have been selected, please refer to the official post by StakeZero Ventures.

The second prize went to two amazing projects, ChironCoin and NEAR Finance. 

ChironCoin enables the sharing of trading algorithms through a platform-specific token.
NEAR Finance is a Finance tracking and management extension to the NEAR wallet.
The final prize went to Vivid IoV Labs. Our Community Manager Anais had a call with the team to get further insights on their hackathon experiences and learn more about their plan ahead. 

Interview with Vivid IoV Labs
Could you please summarise Vivid?

Vivid enables you to see what’s happening anywhere in the world in real-time by making live video streaming requests. What’s happening on the ground right now? How’s the surf? How are the crowds at the protest? These questions get answered in real-time. 

The startup is a peer-to-peer live-streaming app that leverages blockchain-based micropayments, a concept that wouldn’t be viable on a standard network, to reward content creators in real-time. As a stream gains popularity a payment pool is created incentivising a variety of user types, not just influencers. Location-based bounties help companies engage with users in an interactive way through our platform. Machine learning is used to create a reputation system that will help to maintain an abuse-free experience for participants.

How did you come to work together? Did you know each other before?

We have in fact only recently met. Each of us applied to UCL & Ripple’s Block-Sprint hackathon as individuals, however, after winning the top award it was clear we had a good team to carry on with and therefore formalised the company, Vivid IoV Labs. Each member of the team has a solid skillset in disparate areas which we think makes us work well together.

Where did the idea for your App come from? Is there a backstory?

The original idea was seeded when the founders found themselves mutually frustrated at clickbait from content creators and a user experience blighted by ad interruptions. After working on another location-based platform, we saw the opportunity to empower users to receive the viewing experience they want by requesting content within a map interface. Uber for live Streaming!

Having been monitoring blockchain developments for a number of years, it was apparent that there was a great opportunity to leverage new tech, such as micropayments, for a new type of app in the booming live streaming market – fundamentally improving the user experience for viewers whilst creating a fairer method for rewarding creators.

What importance does blockchain have in building your App? I.e. Why Blockchain?

Enables micropayments – we want to help people stream money as this can unlock all manner of opportunities.
Payment settlement can be incredibly fast – we want to provide efficient processes and choice for our customers.
Supports the web 3.0 economy – we want to onboard customers into the new economy and play our part in providing privacy, transparency and giving users control of their data and assets.
Sharing the wealth – we want to provide a fairer way for content producers and publishers to be rewarded for their work.
What is your long-term vision for the App?

To be the live streaming platform where users get the content they want and creators get paid

fairly. Through the platform users can find out what’s happening at a particular place instantly, micro-influencers can fully engage followers with the requested content and are rewarded fairly, and brands can create highly engaging location-based experiences for fans.

Why did you choose NEAR vs. any of the other Layer 1 Protocols that were present at the hackathon?

Compatibility for micropayments
Best developer resources
Recommended by people within our network (reputation/word of mouth)
For further insights and next steps for Vivid, have a look at their blog. If you have any questions about Vivid, please reach out directly to the founders here and sign-up on their website to be the first to hear about the latest developments.

You are a student and want to get started on NEAR?
Join us at the University of Washington Blockchain Hackathon from the 22nd to the 24th of May. You can find all information and how to sign-up on their website.

How can you get involved?
NEAR is hosting several hackathons and has weekly community events. You can find a full list in our events calendar.

If you would like to get involved contributing to NEAR’s technical or community efforts, please have a look at the contributor program.

We look forward to seeing you get involved. Have questions? Join our Community Chat.


NEAR Strategic Update and Outlook for 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 15, 2022
The recent stream of news clearly demonstrates that the world needs Web3. Trust in legacy institutions is breaking down, individual privacy and individual freedom are equally at risk, and the major Web2 platforms we use every day have become monopolies that focus on profit, not people. 

Yet Web3 also hasn’t fully delivered on its promise to open the web. While important progress has been made, much more needs to be done for this technology to deliver fairer, freer digital systems. Today’s Web3 suffers from inaccessible user experience, siloed applications which are difficult to discover, few real-world use cases, and technology tribalism. Put simply, too much hype and not enough value for users. 

Since 2018, NEAR has focused on building scalable, secure technology and infrastructure that is easy to use and enables developers to freely create usable applications. Since launching Mainnet in late 2020, the NEAR ecosystem has made incredible progress, becoming one of the top layer-one blockchains with 22 million accounts, 600K monthly active wallets (active defined as 2+ transactions), and 15x growth in users and projects just in the last year. And despite chaos in the market and a major downturn in recent months, NEAR Foundation has sufficient capital to sustain at least five years of operations in bear market conditions thanks to responsible treasury management. 

While Web3 has yet to deliver on its promises, NEAR Foundation believes that NEAR is the only ecosystem where Web3 promises can be delivered and where mainstream adoption can happen. All the fundamentals have been established for some time and NEAR is charging full-speed ahead into its next growth phase in 2023. This post will cover NEAR’s convictions heading into next year, the strategic approach to drive our next phase, and a look ahead at new areas of product and development. 

Fundamentals and Convictions
NEAR has the best technology in Web3. Provably scalable, easy to onboard and use, developer friendly, secure, and decentralized, with the most advanced account model and onboarding in the blockchain space. 
NEAR has world-class talent and ample runway. From the core teams at the Foundation and Pagoda, to the incredible NEAR Foundation Council and advisors, to the diverse group of brilliant entrepreneurs building companies, apps, and funds on NEAR, some of the best talent in the world is here on NEAR. And thanks to the Foundation’s responsible treasury management, core ecosystem operations and funding are well-positioned to run for many years to come. 
Achieving mainstream adoption is about users. Not TVL, not flashy headlines, not cultish maximalism. NEAR focuses on what matters for the long term and the bear market will separate the high quality projects from the ones fueled mostly by hype. 
Web 2.5 will get us there. Sweatcoin proved that NEAR can support an app with tens of millions of users on open web infrastructure. This is the next phase of adoption: helping another generation of Web2 apps and communities take advantage of the opportunities Web3 offers while providing a richer, more sustainable experience to their users. 
Strategic Approach
Enabling NEAR to make the most of these convictions in today’s climate means committing to the following goals over the next year. 

Growing usage on NEAR will begin with a top-down approach focused on partnerships. The world-class business development team at the Foundation will focus on working with major applications and brands with substantial, established communities to partner with NEAR on real use cases that drive engagement, such as ticketing and earning. High-traction focus verticals include sports, entertainment, and loyalty. Major partnerships in recent months include Grupo Nutresa, Google Cloud, and Sweat Economy. 

Any great Web3 ecosystem is an emergent product of a dedicated community of believers. The bottom-up, grassroots approach for the next year on NEAR will empower the community to invest in its own expansion through grants, primarily through 3 major community DAOs: Developer DAO, Marketing DAO, and Creatives DAO (visit the DAO websites to get involved). This means the NEAR Foundation will no longer directly allocate capital to projects, instead supporting the community in these decisions and further decentralizing key elements of the ecosystem. These grassroots DAOs will be supported by the NDC, which has achieved initial traction, including launching a new Governance Working Group and plans to roll out a v1 governance infrastructure for the ecosystem early next year.

In the new year, the NEAR Foundation will form an early-stage accelerator that will provide support to promising projects and founders on NEAR in areas including education, tech, hiring, legal, UX, and GTM guidance, setting them up to grow into the landmark Web3 projects of tomorrow. 

Looking Ahead 
With NEAR’s protocol, infrastructure, and developer tooling already well established, the next step in providing the best user experience to Web3 will be at the discovery layer: the connective tissue that connects applications, tooling, social, earning, and developer components across the open web. This stack is what we call a “blockchain operating system.”

Many of the building blocks of the blockchain operating system already exist on NEAR, either as features or apps. These include NEAR Crowd, a gig economy platform with 50% of users transacting every day, and NEAR Social, an on-chain social network with a widget framework that lets developers fork entire app frontends to build new experiences. Combined with upcoming improvements to onboarding, including from EVM wallets (which we’re calling remote accounts), native meta transactions, Keypom, and new chat/social capabilities, NEAR will deliver even more amazing value directly to developers and users. 

All of these user-centric elements further up the stack, particularly at the app layer, will form the basis for a core component of the NEAR ecosystem’s product and technical focus in 2023. Pagoda, NEAR Foundation, and other key ecosystem participants will work together to deliver the best possible technology with an increasingly integrated and seamless experience for developers and end users. The goal from here is evolving NEAR to be more than just a layer-one blockchain: it will become a global blockchain operating system. It’s still early days, but building is underway and the vision is clear. 

NEAR is Now 
NEAR is the place where mainstream adoption of the open web will happen. Soon, anyone in the world—app users, developers, founders, creators—will be able to create without limits.

Thank you for reading our NEAR 2023 Strategy Blog Post and/or participating in the NEAR Go Forward Strategy Twitter AMA! If you have questions or comments we would love to hear them!
With MeshFlux, Multimedia Art and Gaming Explore Blockchain Technology
COMMUNITY
August 10, 2023
The worlds of art and blockchain are no strangers. On NEAR, art can be found on apps like Mintbase, Paras, and many other ecosystem projects.  With the MeshFlux project, however, Turkish artist and designer Ufuk Barış Mutlu shows a clear path to how physical artworks can be deeply integrated with the blockchain. 

With funding from the NEAR ecosystem, Mutlu created MeshFlux — a series of interactive sculptures that highlight one of the fundamental aspects of blockchain technology — the distinction between centralized, decentralized, and distributed networks. To achieve this goal, Mutlu created a series of three interactive sculptures that deliver the experience of these systems’ characteristics through simple gamification.

Mutlu recently exhibited MeshFlux at a couple of events. MeshFlux appeared at virtual art platform’s Monoco.io’s physical gallery in Istanbul from May 18 to June 17, 2023, then at Sónar+D Barcelona — the music festival’s digital trade show, from June 15 to June 17, 2023.

Making blockchain art accessible to the masses
Although crypto natives and blockchain curious might understand these concepts, Mutlu wanted to make his physical artworks that explore the blockchain comprehensible to the average person. To that end, he created physical artwork that explains blockchain by visualizing and gamifying it.

“The project’s output consists of three interactive sculptures machined out of aluminum, which are sized similarly to an iPad,” said Mutlu. “The dynamics of the interaction are based on the conventional maze game, where the paths of the mazes represent three different network systems: centralized, decentralized, and distributed networks.”


All three maze paths are mapped according to Paul Baran’s original work published in 1964. Steel bearing balls inside the sculptures represent data packets in the network. The usage of multiple bearing balls distinguishes this sculpture from a conventional maze game and visualizes a multi-user network schematic.

“I narrowed down my approach to the fundamental principles of blockchain, specifically network models,” Mutlu explained. “To achieve this, I created three maze games using network models as the foundation. These maze games are often associated with children and were constructed using premium and industrial materials to strike a balance between play and serious tech.”

Using computers to industrially mill materials — aluminum, in this case — requires designing a digital 3D model, programming the milling machine (referred to as CAM), securing the material into the CNC machine, and using automated cutting tools (CNC) to precisely shape the aluminum block according to the design. 

“The process allows for accurate and efficient production of objects with complex shapes” explains Mutlu.

MeshFlux: NFT meets 3D-printed sculpture
Since his focus lies in physical objects, Mutlu wanted to offer the same sculpture as a 3D-printable file functioning as an NFT. His plan was to leverage all the advantages of blockchain technology through the creation of an NFT, while ensuring its potential to be transformed into a physical and tactile artwork. This would, he figured, satisfy the collector’s desire for touch and possession.

With part of his NEAR ecosystem grant, Mutlu shot a documentary that explores the process of creating MeshFlux’s physical and digital (blockchain) aspects. NFT versions of MeshFlux are currently available, and Mutlu is working on integrating them with NEAR. 

Follow Ufuk Barış Mutlu on Instagram. 
LiNEAR Protocol Introduces Omnichain Liquid Restaking to Advance NEAR’s Chain Abstraction
COMMUNITY
March 27, 2024
LiNEAR, the leading DeFi protocol on NEAR with the highest TVL, is planning to enhance the security of NEAR’s Chain Abstracted network through restaking, ensuring a secure future for a chain-agnostic and chain-abstracted Web3 experience. Established by early core contributors to NEAR, LiNEAR has made significant contributions to advancing the ecosystem, beginning with its innovative liquid staking features, notably the Automatic Validator Optimization Algorithm. This algorithm greatly improves the security and decentralization of the NEAR network by dynamically reallocating stakes across as many as 200 active nodes. 

LiNEAR’s vision has always been enabling easier participation in the decentralized web. With the NEAR ecosystem’s commitment to advancing Chain Abstraction by removing the complexities of blockchain technology for users, LiNEAR is also expanding its offering and focusing on restaking to eliminate barriers to entry for the multichain ecosystem. 

LiNEAR Protocol will be providing a robust security model through omnichain liquid restaking, avoiding the pitfalls of centralized and permissioned solutions in pursuit of an improved Web3 user experience. Restaking can potentially secure Chain Abstraction infrastructures for three key reasons: it offers instant security by leveraging existing blockchain security mechanisms; ensures capital efficiency by allowing nodes and stakers of a blockchain to participate with minimal additional capital; and promotes base layer alignment, closely bonding the networks with the blockchains which they serve.

NEAR‘s Chain Abstraction comprises social authentication, account aggregation, Chain Signatures, and the multichain intent relayer. These elements combine to allow users to transact across various blockchains using a single account and interface, without the need to understand the underlying infrastructure or switch networks.

To realize this vision, two new decentralized infrastructures are required: the Chain Signatures MPC network and the Multichain Gas Relayer. The Chain Signatures MPC network functions as a decentralized signer of users’ NEAR accounts, controlling all other accounts on different blockchains. The Multichain Gas Relayer consists of off-chain relayers that listen to and compete to execute users’ intents on different chains. Both infrastructures operate externally to any existing blockchain, including NEAR.

LiNEAR’s liquid restaking solution aims to secure the Chain Signatures MPC network, mitigating the risks of centralization. Similarly, the Multichain Gas Relayer would be able to operate in a trustless manner with restaked verification, removing embedded trust assumptions and enabling users to confidently delegate executions to the relayer network. This entire security framework can be supported by $NEAR and $LiNEAR, and other assets such as $SOL, $BTC, and more in the future, ensuring alignment with different blockchains connected through Chain Abstraction.

NEAR community members interested in restaking can get started on LiNEAR and help move the network towards a more secure and easy-to-use Web3 world.

About LiNEAR

LiNEAR Protocol is an innovative omnichain liquidity staking/restaking platform and the leading DeFi protocol on NEAR. It pioneered revolutionary features such as automatic validator optimization, which significantly decentralizes and secures the network by allowing users to re-delegate to 200+ validators. LiNEAR offers seamless multichain restaking across multiple networks, such as NEAR, Ethereum, Bitcoin, Solana, and more, ensuring a secure future for a chain-agnostic and chain-abstracted Web3 experience.


Case Study: OnMachina’s Jonathan Bryce on Building Decentralized Storage for an Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 5, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. 

The NEAR Case Studies content vertical made a return recently with a case study featuring Pagoda Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi, talking about the BOS.

For the next entry in the NEAR Case Study series, OnMachina co-founder Jonathan Bryce talks about building decentralized infrastructure on NEAR — specifically, developing decentralized storage for an open web.
NEAR Token Supply and Distribution
COMMUNITY
June 19, 2020
Last updated: 20201016 (see change log section at the end)

NEAR exists to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. The platform and its surrounding ecosystem rely on the efforts of a broad community of participants, builders, validators, delegators and more to succeed. This post will help you understand how the core facilitating component of the protocol, the NEAR token, is distributed to support the launch of this ecosystem.

Using this Post
The intent of this post is to give you a clear picture of the initial distribution of tokens for the NEAR protocol. Wherever possible, we’ll use charts and tables to explain, but we’ll also contextualize them with the thinking behind it all. Data is beautiful 🙂

Each section should be self-explanatory but there are some methodological notes at the end. The charts will generally present the most conservative case when there is a choice. The accuracy or certainty of numbers may vary by category, as noted below.

Changes to the post will be noted in the Changelog section at the end so it is clear how up-to-date it is and what has changed between versions.

About NEAR
For those who aren’t familiar, NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity while providing the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people. It is built atop a brand new public, proof-of-stake blockchain which uses a novel consensus mechanism called Doomslug and a new sharding approach called Nightshade which splits the network into multiple pieces so that the computation is done in parallel and there is no theoretical limit on capacity.

NEAR’s contract-based account model provides the flexibility that other chains only get from second layer components, allowing NEAR to consistently provide better native usability for developers, validators and end-users.

NEAR launched its genesis (Phase 0) on April 22, 2020, became community-operated (Phase I) on September 24, 2020, and passed the decentralized vote to enable transfers on October 13, 2020 (Phase II). It is now fully live. 

Key Facts
The following will help you better contextualize the sections below:

Genesis Tokens: There were 1 billion NEAR tokens created at genesis. They are being allocated to individuals and organizations on an ongoing basis during the rollout of MainNet. Inflation, transfers and unlocking did not begin until the final phase of MainNet (“Phase II”), which started on October 13, 2020. All charts in this post begin on the date when transfers were enabled (which will be determined by the community). See below for circulating supply.
Contract-Based Accounts: NEAR uses a smart-contract-based account model, meaning that each account is actually a smart contract as well. Account names are thus human-readable (eg `foobar.near`) and contain any number of uniquely-permissioned keys. Thus it’s possible to have staking keys separate from transfer keys.
Transfer Restriction: Until the network officially reached the Community-Governed MainNet phase (aka “Phase II”), the accounts of token recipients were prevented from directly transferring tokens (but they could still be used to pay for gas or storage, staked, delegated, used to deploy apps, etc).
Lockups and Unlocking: The vast majority of tokens are subject to linearly releasing lockups. These lockups are implemented as contract-based locks atop various accounts. Lockups are generally implemented in a linear, per-block fashion instead of in monthly chunks, though some might be implemented that way as well. Lockups begin unlocking when the transition to the final Community-Governed MainNet phase occurs (aka “Phase II”). We use the term “linear lockup” or “linear release” where some other projects use the term “vesting”, so you may know it by that name.
Staking and Delegating while Locked: NEAR is a Proof of Stake network where validating nodes put at stake either their own tokens or tokens which have been “delegated” to them by other holders. The number of validating nodes depends on the number of shards in the network but will start at 100. Because of NEAR’s account model, tokens can be staked or delegated even while they are locked.
Foundation Delegation: The Foundation is only actively running nodes during the initial phase of the network rollout. Thereafter, as noted in this post, it will shut down its nodes and be limited to delegation. It will only delegate tokens in its endowment.
New Issuance and Economics: As per the Economics Blog Post and Economics Paper, 5% of additional supply is issued each year to support the network as epoch rewards, of which 90% goes to validators (4.5% total) and 10% to the protocol treasury (0.5% total). 30% of transaction fees are rebated to the contracts touched by the transaction and 70% are burned. Because of this burning, at high levels of transaction throughput the network could become deflationary. In this post, we assume the pessimistic case of 0 fees. New supply creation does not begin until the transition to the final Community-Governed MainNet phase occurs.
Overall Allocation and Supply Schedule
There were 1,000,000,000 NEAR tokens created at Genesis on April 22, 2020. This will be allocated in the following way, where each category is described in greater detail in the following sections:
“Circulating Supply” is every token that isn’t subject to a lockup at a particular time. The vast majority of the initial supply of NEAR tokens is subject to long-term lockups. So the initial circulating supply is made up of provisions for a community sale, a future distribution activity, a small handful of community contracts and the Foundation’s liquid endowment. All supply that existed at genesis is unlocked by month 60.

The chart below shows the increase in circulating supply as tokens unlock and new tokens are minted. The dotted line shows the total supply as it increases due to new issuance (but ignores any burning that would be due to fees). This and all charts begin on the date that transfer restrictions are lifted (“Phase II”):

The table below shows the circulating supply for commonly used date milestones:

The following chart provides more detail on the components of the circulating supply as it grows over time. Each category is explained in further detail in the following sections. Note again that all genesis tokens are unlocked by the end of month 60.

Because the network is secured through running Proof-of-Stake validating nodes, it is relevant to discuss how much stake can participate in validation (directly) or delegation to validators (indirectly). Distribution-oriented categories (like “Community Distribution”) will only participate in delegation when the tokens are received by their intended recipient, so these numbers represent the maximum amount of stake that would theoretically participate in validation. In reality, it will certainly be less.

Category Detail
Each category is explained in more detail below.

Community Grants and Programs
A large portion of tokens is devoted to grants and programs which fund community efforts, community projects and community-built technical components. This spans everything from education to events to direct deployment into venture-style funding for projects. A small provision exists for tokens that can be given away or sold in the future. Because these efforts are decidedly long-term in nature, the tokens are released over 60 months.

Core Team
In 2018 when NEAR built its early momentum, blockchain projects were already imploding with alarming frequency, in part because they set the wrong incentives for their teammates. Some didn’t launch at all and others were abandoned shortly after they did.

NEAR is being built by one of the strongest teams in the world, which is spread across multiple continents and many backgrounds. Core team members have been important in the early success of the protocol and they are incentivized to remain active with its development for a long time afterward — every single member has the identical 4-year lockup with a 12-month cliff after launch, which you can see in the chart.

Prior Backers
Most project funding occurred during a severe crypto bear market and during a period where the crowdsales of the past were no longer feasible. The team’s philosophy when sourcing early backers to support the project was simple: 

Backers must be long-term oriented.
Backers must add value to both the project (eg via actively supporting the team) and the network (eg via validating or delegating stake).
Rounds should be structured clearly and transparently so every member has the opportunity to get the same pricing and lockup terms in that round.
No single player should control an undue amount of stake
Despite the simplicity of these requirements, we were forced to turn away many prospective backers who wanted other incentives. For the record, very few capital allocators are used to being told to write a *smaller* check, but it means that no single backer holds above 3.5% of the initial supply and few have above 1%. Every prior purchaser has a lockup of between 12 and 36 months from transfers unlocking, with the majority at 24 months. Because the first purchase occurred in 2017, some backers will wait over 3 years between their initial purchase and any liquidity and over 5 years to achieve full liquidity.

There’s a difference between the larger, typically more institutional, backers and smaller, typically more independent, backers. A well balanced ecosystem has an appropriate number of both. We capped the total contributions from larger backers while encouraging those from smaller backers. To ensure that small participants could still potentially participate in validation during the network’s early stages, the threshold between the two was set at holding 5M tokens at launch. 

Prior Fundraising
NEAR raised from backers in several tranches which are explained below. Early fundraising was done via convertible notes, of which almost all have since converted to tokens. All are expected to fully convert to tokens.

These linear lockups and quantities (which, again, release linearly during their time period) can be visualized in the following ways:

Community Sale
The network at scale will be fully community-driven and that requires making sure the community has the tokens they need. The Community Sale occurred in August 2020 in multiple portions due to some technical difficulties and a desire to improve participation. The total amount that ended up being distributed during the sale period was just over 120M tokens. A maximum of 25M of these tokens were unlocked and the remainder were subject to 12- or 24-month linear lockups. 

Early Ecosystem
It takes a substantial group of people to put together all the pieces which have made the network successful so far. Early Ecosystem includes all of the grants for those who have participated in the network ecosystem thus far, whether as part of the Beta Program to build early apps, building analytics tooling, supporting the incentivized testnet and so on. Lockups for these efforts are typically 6- or 12-months, though a handful have been shorter or longer. It also includes allocations for several programs that haven’t launched yet.

One of these unannounced programs contains 30M tokens on a 6-month linear lockup. The largest portion in this category is a provision for a currently-unannounced distribution effort which could involve up to 80M unlocked tokens. For details, please wait for the announcement of this program.

Foundation Endowment
The NEAR Foundation stood up the initial network nodes and spun them down to focus on coordinating the governance of the ecosystem, funding projects and kicking off remaining distribution activities. The Endowment represents a pool of tokens which are meant to support the Foundation’s operations in the long term and which might be deployed in a wide range of ways.

This endowment is split into 2 pieces. The first half, which is not locked up, will likely be deployed across multiple strategies to help ensure the network operates smoothly during its early phases. The second half is subject to a 24 month linear lockup since it is not expected to be accessed during the early days beyond delegation to support decentralization. Both tranches are meant to be deployed in ways which preserve principle wherever possible to ensure long-term availability rather than systematically sold for short-term capital.

As a reminder, the Endowment may not be used to run validating nodes directly but could be delegated, as per the previously linked post.

As part of the initial rollout, the Foundation accounts will be setting up the lockups and accounts for the rest of holders. Some tokens may still be in these accounts during rollout if recipients are delayed in setting up their respective custody solutions.

Operations Grants
The technical architecture of the system benefits from the expertise of world-class developers for continuous operation and ongoing development. These efforts will be funded by community-overseen grants that focus on supporting the people who maintain, operate and develop the system itself. These grants are expected to be first initiated during the second half of 2020 and early 2021. The tokens set aside for this purpose are subject to long-term 60-month linear lockups to ensure they are clearly allocated to long-term projects.

New Issuance
New Issuance is not a factor in the genesis block but represents, at its maximum, a 5% growth rate in the supply of tokens. As always, note that this percentage does not factor in the burning of transaction and storage fees since they cannot be easily estimated at this point.

Observed vs Circulating Supply
Now that Phase II has happened and transfers are enabled, the team is working to help create more transparency in the circulating supply. As the first part of this, these are some known variations which will occur between the intended circulating supply (as written in this post) and what might be observable on-chain, particularly during early phases of the network:

Unclaimed tokens: The biggest variation in circulating supply will be due to unclaimed tokens. These are kept in unlocked accounts until they are claimed (because otherwise they could be claimed), after which almost all of them will have their intended lockups applied. As of the date of Phase II, this number was over 300M tokens.
Accounting shifts: Similar to the Unclaimed Tokens, during the earliest days, some accounts which are reserved (particularly for Early Ecosystem) are still having lockups applied. There will also be changes in the delegation from the NF during the first few weeks after Phase II while tokens are consolidated into their intended accounts. All of these activities are intended to help make reality reflect the descriptions and charts above. Some buckets may also have short-term vesting provisions to allow for reclamation during the first few days after locking in case of mistakes.
Account creation tokens: Whenever an account is created (including during the claims process), it receives some initial tokens to cover the storage costs. For complex accounts, that could be as high as 40 tokens. This is not accounted for above but these will appear to be unlocked.
Inflation lag: There is approximately a 1-week lag between the date when transfers were enabled on the network (Phase II) and when the upgrade will occur to enable inflation on the network. This will result in some of the New Issuance assumptions above being slightly off. This isn’t likely to be significant enough to create major disturbances.
As the analytics tools become stronger after launch and tokens are successfully claimed, you can expect convergence between observed and intended categories.

Conclusion
You can expect additional information over the next several weeks about the project and its activities as the rollout of MainNet continues and distribution begins ramping up. Regardless of your background or intent, there is a way to get involved:

Find your place among the teams that drive this forward at https://pages.near.org/careers or get involved directly as a Contributor or Guild Leader at https://pages.near.org/community. If you are a developer, you can jump into the code at https://docs.near.org and if you are already a founder, you can find support for your journey from the Open Web Collective, a platform-agnostic founder community, at https://openwebcollective.com. 

Finally, if you are interested in analytics and exploring these numbers (or if you find errors/inconsistencies), please feel free to create tools or views and let us know at [email protected]. Everyone benefits from better transparency and analytics! Some of these tools may also be eligible for grants.

Appendix A: Methodological Notes

Time buckets should be read as “end of month” unless otherwise noted, meaning the bucket for “month 12” includes the initial balance on the first day of that month plus any change within that month. “Month 0” is the only bucket which is typically used to represent genesis without any additional time.
The modeling of token releases to represent inflation uses a more simplified average than actual formulas and does not take into account the number of days in a month.
Amounts are intended to be accurate but may still contain imprecisions and are subject to change.
Appendix B: Change Log

20201016

Many updates. Overall, the expected circulating supply was reduced at genesis and is roughly the same at other major milestones.

Updated overall circulating supply charts to reflect changes.
Updated the community sale category to reflect reality and shifts due to the additional sale window. This meant a reduction in other categories, particularly the Team (reduced from ~145M to ~140M) and Early Ecosystem (reduced from ~133M to ~117M, including from the unlocked allocation). Updated Early Ecosystem explanation to reflect reduction in unlocked token bucket from 100M to 80M.
Minor shifts of ~1-2M each in Operations and Community Grants categories.
Added a section explaining potential shifts in observed versus planned circulating supply post-phase-II.
Updated copy and links to reflect latest network status.
Updated community sale category to reflect actual sale numbers.
Added note in Foundation about delegation.
20200811

Fixed legacy mistake in circulating supply in the “Genesis Tokens” section of “About NEAR” to reflect the proper supply.
Clarified language around the circulating supply
20200810

Added and separated out a Community Sale category. This has basically the same character as the Small Backers category (where these were located previously) but, in the interest of clarity, it is now separate. It has also been increased to reflect a significantly higher possibility of demand (100M) than originally expected (15M). The increase in token expectation has been shifted from the Community Distribution bucket, which included post-Phase-II sales previously (and are now being optionally allocated to a pre-Phase-II sale to the community). This results in some change in the circulating supply due to shorter lockups in the Community Sale (0, 12 or 24 months) versus the previous Community Distribution bucket (60 months). To reflect the maximum possible allocation of unlocked tokens, initial circulating supply has been increased by 17.5M tokens versus the previous estimate.
Updated Backers section to reflect this.
Combined remaining Community Distribution amounts into the Community Grants, Programs and Distribution category and updated category description to reflect this.
Minor clarifications around the word “Lockup” since this has confused people. In this post, we use “Linear Lockup” or “Linear Release” the way that many other people have used “Vesting” historically. We believe that “Lockup” is still the correct term because, technically, “vesting” items are not yours until they vest whereas locked tokens belong to you from the beginning (they are just locked from being transferred).
Updated charts and added horizontal axis description “months since transfers are enabled”. Colors have changed.
Fixed title on the Prior Fundraising table.
Noted the 30M 6-month program in Early Ecosystem.
Minor clarity around Phase II in the intro.
20200724:

Updated to reflect the potential for 100M possibly liquid tokens to be available as part of a currently-unannounced program in the Early Ecosystem category, which readjusted amounts available to the post-launch Community Grants and Community Distribution categories.
Updated Early Ecosystem balances to reflect that Stake Wars allocations will be unlocked.
Updated language on Future Fundraises slightly for clarity.
Updated all remaining charts and tables to reflect changes in circulating supply.
Infura Brings its Leading ETH Dev Platform to NEAR Protocol
COMMUNITY
May 25, 2022
ConsenSys, the Ethereum incubator and enterprise company, has announced a partnership between the NEAR Protocol and Infura, the leading Ethereum development platform. This agreement paves the way for over 430,000 Infura developers to access a non-Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) compatible that is super simple to use, incredibly secure and infinitely scalable for the very first time.

Integrating Infura and bringing Ethereum developers into the NEAR ecosystem is a significant step in fulfilling NEAR’s mission of creating an inclusive, self-sustainable, fully decentralized ecosystem with billions of users. It also illustrates the importance of the role that a multi-chain future will play in fulfilling that vision.

Here’s everything you need to know about Infura’s partnership and integration with NEAR, and why developers expanding beyond non-EVM compatible chains will benefit everyone.

Driving climate neutrality and scalability
The Infura and NEAR integration has been in private beta for two months. Expanding beyond EVM compatible chains also marks a strategic shift by Infura, as it seeks to become a key connector in tomorrow’s multi-chain world. By integrating with NEAR, Infura also makes strides towards better sustainability and scalability for developers.

The integration of Infura with NEAR will provide developers with one of the best options in terms of sustainability. The NEAR network and ecosystem are carbon-neutral with a minimal environmental footprint. Last year, South Pole, a leading climate advocay group,awarded NEAR the Climate Neutral Product Label.

As for scalability, NEAR’s sharded blockchain enables a substantial increase in overall capacity. Infura developers will now have access to a network that can process at a rate of 1,000 transactions per second. And once NEAR’s Nightshade sharding is fully implemented, network scalability will be theoretically limitless, processing millions of transactions per second.

Enhancing the developer experience
Infura developers will now have access to the full development experience on NEAR, as well as the tools and resources at their disposal. This includes the ability to build decentralized applications using common programming languages such as Rust, AssemblyScript, and WebAssembly (WASM), and NEAR’s class-leading education platform. 

NEAR will also provide developers with a superior suite of learning resources including educational video series, as well as guided courses and workshops. While Infura developers are already using and accessing other networks like Ethereum, Polygon, and IPFS, they’ll find all the tools and resources needed to successfully build on NEAR.

The ability to utilize Ethereum assets on NEAR, and vice versa, is another core benefit to developers of the integration. With NEAR’s Rainbow Bridge, assets can be seamlessly moved cross-chain in a fraud-proof manner with optimal security. Rainbow Bridge is a permissionless protocol that removes the necessity of trusting a single party to complete transactions.

Infura developers can access the NEAR network today. The integration will accelerate the global adoption of Infura’s development tool suite, in addition to bringing more development talent and brainpower into the NEAR ecosystem. 
Our Last Update | December 13th, 2019
COMMUNITY
December 13, 2019
Friday the 13th, our last community update… Until next year! This is going to be our last community update in 2019. Our next update, on Friday the 27th, is going to be an end of the year special. Mark the date in your calendar! 

Now that we got that out, here is what we have been up to over the past weeks. 

We are heavily working on NEAR-specific content. Episode four and five of our ‘Lunch & Learn’ Series are out. For those of you, who are new to the episodes, it is basically a whiteboard series by Near on NEAR, explaining all aspects of the protocol. The fourth episode covers block finality in Nightshade, and in the fifth Evgeny takes a deep dive into runtime. If you have any comments, questions, or would like to request a topic, please get in touch on Discord.

Becoming stable — Stake Wars has been up and running for almost a month now. Let’s give a huge shout out to everyone, who has been sticking around and filed issues on GitHub. Since our testnet being more stable, we are changing the structure of the program. We will be rewarding running nodes and test scenarios. Follow the validator and stake-wars-announcement channel on Discord as well as the GitHub repository for further updates.

31st episode of NEARProtocol’s Whiteboardseries is out! Watch it here.
COMMUNITY UPDATE
Similar to our engineering approach, we like to iterate on existing community programs, once we feel the need to change the scope, to make those more effective. We are currently working on two community programs that build on our learning and feedback from previous community efforts. More information is going to be announced soon!

UPCOMING EVENTS
2020 is right around the corner and we are getting ready for the new year. I can only tell you this much, we are going to be back in Asia at the beginning of 2020.
If you are in the Bay Area, come and say hi at our office, we love to chat about user experience. In the meantime, our “Blockchain Hack Night”, a bi-weekly meetup for developers and blockchain enthusiasts in the Bay Area, is taking a little winter break. We will be back on the 15th of January.
Jan, one of our beta program participants, has been hosting several meetups in Prague. Check-out this photo from yesterday’s meetup.
Jan’s meetup
WRITING AND CONTENT
Check-out the latest Chorus One Podcast episode that Felix recorded with Illia on NEAR staking economics.
The 31st episode of our whiteboard series is out! Join Kevin Davis from Kava Labs and Illia for a deep dive on cross-chain DeFi, stablecoins, and Kava’s tech.
Do you want to learn more about NEAR? Then head over to our “Lunch and Learn” Series on YouTube. We have just published the fifth episode, in which Evgeny explains runtime.
Let’s celebrate the last days of 2019! Photo by NordWood Themes
ENGINEERING UPDATES
132 PRs across 24 repos by 26 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-fiddle-api, near-shell, near-explorer, near-bridge and near-wallet;

Implementation of the fork choice rule in nearcore
Network graph cache in nearcore
Progressive slashing for double signs (as opposed to 100% slashing) in nearcore
Adding staking for fishermen (to prevent challenges spam) in nearcore
Light clients support in nearcore
Computing light client blocks
RPC endpoint that serves light clients
Published v0.4.8 of nearcore
Fix memory leaks in both ShardsManager and network routing table.
Use stake as weight in finality gadget
Store hash instead of actual values in trie nodes.
V0.16.0 release of near-shell, including
Allow easier formatting input for attonear
Use NEAR as default unit
Min node version requirement
Search by block height in near-explorer
Implement API for signing individual transaction in near-wallet
Published v0.17.3 of nearlib
Added documentation explaining receipt matching in nomicon
Lastly, check out the ongoing discussions for the design of cross-shard composability in NEP (here and here)
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!

If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Protocol Awarded the Climate Neutral Product Label
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 16, 2021
Post by Yessin Schiegg

Builders on NEAR, join us and offset your carbon footprint! How can a decentralized blockchain that uses energy be climate neutral? – It can, by a commitment to measure, reduce, and offset its carbon footprint with green projects. NEAR Protocol has been awarded the Climate Neutral Product Label from South Pole.

We, as human beings, are inherently a threat to our planet’s climate by emitting carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases. However, by making the right choices, we can create systems that reduce and even remove emissions and preserve a healthy environment. A tribe that plants more trees than it chops down may claim climate neutrality, even though its members are making fires. To sustain a healthy climate, we need to reach a net-zero level of emissions which involves reducing emissions as much as possible and then removing the remaining emissions either through nature-based solutions or technological solutions that draw CO2 out of the air. Otherwise, the level of greenhouse gases in the world’s atmosphere continues to increase, leading to global warming.

Technical carbon-capturing solutions are still rare and expensive. Currently, nature offers the only reasonably cost-effective carbon-capturing mechanism. Chlorophyll is the molecule that is vital for photosynthesis and renders our world green. It allows plants to absorb energy from light by capturing CO2 and emitting oxygen into the atmosphere. 

Planting trees is a great solution, but it is wiser and less expensive to reduce carbon emission in the first place. Significant areas to start reducing carbon emissions are the systems that we control ourselves. If we cannot reduce our own carbon footprints, we can reduce the carbon footprint in other systems. For example, an airline can’t eliminate its carbon footprint with today’s technologies. Therefore, the airline could reduce the CO2 production by replacing the combustion engine-powered shuttle systems of its airports with green alternatives powered by renewable energy. If it becomes prohibitively expensive to reduce the carbon emissions in a particular system, resources can be transferred to another system to pay for the necessary reduction. This is essentially how carbon offsetting functions.

Saving the climate is not a matter of faith, as many believe in error. It’s a matter of science and commitment. Science helps us set the necessary targets, which we reach by measuring, reducing, removing, and offsetting carbon emissions. Measuring a company’s carbon footprint is not easy and never perfect. It’s nevertheless a great start to begin to understand the impact of your company on nature. The commitment to improve our situation then helps deploy the resources required to bring an emissions balance to our planet. 

For a decentralized protocol like NEAR, it does not matter that not every participant is carbon neutral, but the network should be carbon neutral as a whole. NEAR Foundation engaged South Pole, the leading low-carbon project developer, and climate solutions provider, to measure NEAR Protocol’s carbon footprint and meet its climate neutrality commitment. By offsetting the first year’s emissions by supporting tree-planting projects and seeking to reduce avoidable emissions until the second accounting year, NEAR achieved South Pole’s Carbon Neutral Product Label 2021. The three green projects supported by NEAR are Kariba Forest Protection, Vegachi Forest Restoration, and Afognak Forest Carbon, as listed here.

South Pole assessed NEAR Protocol’s carbon footprint by considering the emissions of NEAR Foundation, the Members of NEAR’s Core Collective, the NEAR Validators, and the use phase of the Protocol (NEAR users initiating transactions). Following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard, the scope of the footprint accounting encompassed both direct and indirect emissions associated with the NEAR Protocol: everything from electricity use, heating, and cooling, to purchased goods and services such as hardware and cloud services, to generated waste as well as travel, commuting and teleworking activities. Data that was not centrally available was surveyed, and South Pole critically reviewed the feedback and data before NEAR’s carbon footprint was calculated from these inputs. A surprise was that business travel and commuting by the Core Collective Members accounted for most of NEAR Protocol’s carbon emissions.

Simultaneously, the use phase, namely the online activity around transaction initiation, constitutes only a tiny fraction of the footprint. The emissions from validator activity play a significant role for NEAR’s indirect emissions relative to other categories. However, this needs to be understood in the light of an overall small footprint due to the advantages of a proof-of-stake protocol instead of proof-of-work. While NEAR’s footprint can be expected to increase with future scaling, both validator activity and use phase can be expected to stay by far below the enormous climate footprint of proof-of-work networks. This finding, therefore, supports the notion that proof-of-stake offers a more climate-friendly alternative to proof-of-work. The quantification of NEAR’s first footprint was done to the best available methodological knowledge. Due to the early stage of performing this for proof-of-stake blockchains, some future changes can be anticipated, and to be on the safe side, NEAR decided to compensate a bit more than was calculated by South Pole.

By pioneering climate-friendly solutions, NEAR Protocol attracts like-minded people who are seeking to commit to improving the climate too. While doing your transactions on the NEAR Protocol is offsetting CO2 already. But we are looking at innovative ways to take it a step further so that every project building on NEAR can easily measure and offset its carbon footprint! Plenty of ideas are emerging, and separate projects are currently being formalized. One of them could be very positive for the climate: With the upcoming release of the NFT platform Mintbase on NEAR, crypto artists will create NFT art pieces that thematize South Pole projects. The artists will then auction the NFTs off, and a large part of the proceeds will go directly to the CO2 compensation projects in developing countries. These projects are results-based, so a project only gets paid for its emission reduction once measured and verified by an independent 3rd party auditor.

If you would like to build on NEAR Protocol while offsetting your CO2 footprint, participate as an artist in the NFT project, or have an idea for any climate-friendly initiative, please reach us at [email protected]. We look forward to discussing with you how blockchain technology can help improve the world.
NEAR and Dropt to Revolutionize Loyalty and Engagement
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 19, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Dropt, focused on embedding Web3 technologies into customer loyalty and engagement programs. With ownership and interoperability being critical components in the next generation of the customer experience, Dropt chose to build on NEAR. Its compelling tech stack and powerful tooling offer Dropt the ideal foundation for delivering these features at scale and redefining “frictionless onboarding”.

With Dropt, teams and enterprises can now easily and seamlessly introduce blockchain-powered loyalty and engagement mechanics into their customer journey. These Web3 features will help increase engagement, retention, and lifetime value without customers ever even knowing they are interacting with the blockchain. Customers simply use apps and sites just as they do today, but with new NFT-powered features. 

NEAR and Dropt believe this is the key to mass adoption. Users are not interested in what is happening in the background—they simply want a fun experience that is engaging and rewarding. 

For one of its first integrations, Dropt will be partnering with a NBA championship team, led by one of the most dominant players in the world. 

Blockchain mechanics shift the paradigm for customer engagement
By introducing NFTs to the customer journey, brands immediately integrate an incentive structure into the customer experience that elevates participation and engagement like never before. Branded marketplaces, where customers can interact with tokens, give users the ability to monetize their engagement with a brand.”With Dropt, NFTs can feature different kinds of perks and benefits. In this way, customers are better aligned with the brand’s and naturally become true evangelists.

A changing landscape
In an era where customer expectations are evolving and acquisition costs are rising, Dropt’s highly curated experiences enable brands to exceed these expectations. Let’s face it, loyalty is stale. Consumer expectations are shifting—people want to align themselves with brands that connect with authenticity and make consumers feel like part of a community.

Dropt transforms the loyalty experience into a deeper, more community-based level of engagement, enabling brands to better connect with their communities. This not only modernizes how brands engage in this digital era, but also creates new acquisition channels.

To capitalize on this opportunity, NEAR Foundation and Dropt believe user experience is vital. It’s unrealistic to expect customers to change their behavior, which is why Dropt and NEAR are working alongside cutting-edge authentication and gamification partners to build a web that’s both familiar and brings the best of what Web3 has to offer. 

Dropt is confident that in partnering with the Foundation, mass adoption is NEAR.


NEAR at We Are Developers World Congress 2023: Build with BOS in Berlin
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 25, 2023
NEAR is  gearing up for a big presence at the We Are Developers World Congress 2023. It’s an exciting opportunity to demonstrate the power of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), fostering a wave of innovation and expanding horizons for developers in Germany, the Balkans, and beyond.

A dedicated NEAR team  will be engaging with attendees over 10,000 expected global attendees at We Are Developers. The congress will take place in the dynamic city of Berlin, Germany, on the 27th and 28th of July.

So if you’re in the area and want to explore new BOS development opportunities in-person, NEAR at the We Are Developers World Congress 2023 is a must-attend.

NEAR’s participation in the event
Kicking off on Friday, July 28, 2023, from 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM, the “Mastering BOS” workshop, hosted by senior NEAR developers Andrej Šarić and Alen Meštrov. This deep dive session aims to equip attendees with the skills and knowledge to leverage BOS development and tolling, from a smooth onboarding process to deploying their first application.

On Thursday, July 27, 2023, from 3:30 PM to 4:00 PM, Andrej Šarić will add depth to NEAR’s presence during “Exploring BOS.”  The session will delve into how BOS simplifies the application-building process, improves user onboarding, and facilitates multi-chain interactions, positioning it as an essential tool for developers and users alike.

NEAR’s BOS booth will be an interactive hub, offering engaging activities and a fun quiz. Visitors can also get their hands on cool NEAR merchandise. And Tekuno’s Devs Without Limits activation allows participants to collect PODs at three specific locations: the “Mastering BOS” workshop, the “Exploring BOS” talk, and the NEAR BOS booth.

The Tekuno collab will allow participants to collect PODs at specific locations, which unlocks a special “We Are Developers” Proof-of-Doing (POD) with a chance to win a ticket to NEARCON 2023. Successfully collecting all three PODs unlocks the “We Are Developers” POD, affirming their active participation and engagement at the congress.

The Tekuno Activation: Devs Without Limits will be happening throughout the duration of the conference, from Thursday, July 27 to July 28, 2023.

Importance of BOS and NEAR for the Developer Community
The NEAR team will spread the word and underscore how BOS is making the application-building process smoother and more accessible for developers worldwide. By participating in the “Mastering BOS” workshop and “Exploring BOS” talk, developers can explore the myriad advantages of using BOS and the NEAR Protocol. 

NEAR’s team will highlight BOS’s ability to facilitate composability, swift app creation, and its chain-agnostic capabilities, empowering developers attending the congress. NEAR’s presence at the congress aims to showcase BOS’s significant potential for expanding the NEAR ecosystem. 

By engaging with global developers at this event, NEAR aspires to foster a greater understanding of BOS, stimulate increased adoption, and consequently, amplify awareness and growth of the NEAR community.  

As NEAR gears up for We Are Developers World Congress 2023, their mission is clear —  to illuminate the immense potential of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The mission will be  to drive BOS  adoption, foster developer engagement, and strengthen the NEAR ecosystem.

Mark your calendars for this awesome  event, and join us in the hip and modern city of Berlin on 27th and 28th July. From engaging workshops to in-depth discussions, come on down to the We Are Developers World Congress begin Berlin BOS building.


An Industry Set For Change: A Future Outlook on Blockchain Adoption, Usability, and Scalability in Modern Times
COMMUNITY
January 15, 2019
What is Programmable Money?

Our current system of monetary exchange has evolved over time to accommodate new marketplace demands and technological advancements, giving financial inclusion to even the most remote villages on earth. Predating the era of tangible fiat currencies, the idea of an ecosystem reliant upon bartering was most commonly used to facilitate trade between two or more parties that were in the same geographical area, where the price of the goods or services being traded can be negotiated in person. It wasn’t until the advent of minted coins, most commonly attributed to Lydian societies (now modern-day Turkey) where an exchange of goods can be quantified based on a widely recognized set of standards. This store of value enabled ancient societies to expand well beyond their territorial boundaries and engage in trade with empires across the globe. New forms of monetary transmission have allowed civilizations to become more interdependent and the reliance on cross border trade has fueled societies to grow, people to live outside of major metropolitan areas, and cultures to assimilate with one another.

Our modern-day system of exchange, while technologically more advanced, is no different in principle than how ancient societies functioned. A good or service is placed in the marketplace and a price is set, for which a buyer can either accept, reject, or counter the offer. If the two parties agree on a mutually satisfactory price, the transaction is complete. This form of trade is conditional upon sellers providing quality goods and buyers using authentic forms of payment. However, the risk of bad actors using deceit and engaging in fraudulent behavior cannot be fully controlled in open marketplace transactions whereby those looking to deceive can offer counterfeit goods in return for authentic currencies. Modern trading platforms such as eBay and Amazon have security measures in place to facilitate transactions where payment of goods are not released to the seller until confirmation of goods in transit, partially combating fraudulent behavior, however, what happens if the goods in transit are fraudulent themselves? A bad review can be left for the seller, which can result in the reporting and shutdown of a seller account, but that only solves part of the problem and the buyer is often times left at a loss.

With recent advancement in marketplace architecture, the concept of programmable money has allowed transactions to not only be quantifiable (as in the case of eBay and Amazon) but also verifiable and secure. Goods and payment terms can be locked up in escrow where neither party is given access their piece of the transaction until authenticity is provided (through notary services or trusted 3rd parties) and goods have changed hands. A common example can be seen in the sale of a car. Jack is looking to buy a car from Bob, however, Jack wants to make sure the car passes the proper emissions tests, does not have structural damage, and is delivered to an address provided. Jack puts in escrow the amount that has been negotiated with Bob for the car and upon a mechanic signing off on all relevant tests and a shipping agent delivering the car to the proper address, the payment terms are then released to the seller. Programmable money, or the act of creating exchange based transaction conditions, gives the payer and payee greater parameters when engaging in trade and conditions such as time, value, and expertise can be predefined as a result of a valid trade and stored through electronic measures.

In theory, creating a system of predefined marketplace conditions where both the buyer and seller have transactional guarantees makes sense, but the logistical inefficiencies of implementing such a system have barred mass adoption to date. The DAO is a good example of what can happen when the direct access to funds transfer is controlled only by using the software. Through exploitation of weak security code, hackers were able to ciphon off about 80 million dollars in Ethereum’s native currency, Ether, due to the lack of features that frameworks supporting critical systems would ordinarily have. It is possible that inefficient or missing documentation was the result of the hack, where if properly provided developers could have spotted the critical flaws in advance, but when software is only the control agent for funds transfer, security is most critical. Technology development around programmable money has come a long way since the DAO hack of 2016 and major financial institutions such as IBM have started to make substantial investments into distributed ledger technology. In fact, IBM’s recent release of their programmable money whitepaper and platform World Wire, notes that 91% of banks surveyed in the report are making some kind of investment into blockchain technology as a facilitation medium for deposit transfers, however, the entire monetary transmission supply chain won’t be completely decentralized. It is argued that while there is substantial efficiencies that can be gained by using programmable money, critical functions such as ID management, monitoring transactions for fraud, and preventing/reporting money laundering activities will still be manual checks using trusted 3rd party agents.

Scaling Programmable Money

It seems as if this industry is heading towards using a blend of software and trusted 3rd parties to facilitate trade, however mass adoption of programmable money will only come from scalable protocol layers that allow for decentralized consumer applications to gain popularity. A great medium article by Newtown Partners (with contributions from Civic) discusses Decentralized Applications, commonly known as DApps, and their value chain. Application layers enable a relationship with the end user (ie consumer-facing services and interactions), application protocols facilitate the internal token economy, and base/processing protocols dictate governance of the organization and facilitate the underlying network. For consumer-facing solutions to work, all parts of the DApp value chain must work harmoniously so that value is captured across multiple layers. It is discussed that for mass DApp adoption, user aggregation of application layers is the only way to scale DApps and bring value to the underlying protocol. In some centralized manner, all the current infrastructure needed to build a DApp has already been created, thus, capturing a majority user base is the only way to effectively scale blockchain products. A DApp needs to be able to bootstrap and generate genuine user level interest before value can be attributable to the underlying protocol. But before a DApp can be built, it must work using already existing infrastructure (such as AWS), work with an established blockchain protocol layer (such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, Stellar, etc.) that can support its functional needs, or concurrently build with a new protocol layer.

Interestingly enough, the rise of protocol layers followed by mass adoptable consumer applications is not a new trend and in fact, occurred back in the early 90’s. When Tim Berners-Lee sought to build an application protocol layer for distributable and collaborative hypermedia information systems, the result was HTTP, or what has become the genesis of document and information sharing. Berners-Lee created a system where users can click and link resources for public access, consumption, and publication over the internet. He built the first web server, which leads to the rise of the web browser accessing, reading, and displaying the shareable content. Companies such as Netscape/Mosaic, Opera, and browsers, such as Lynx and Internet Explorer, were among the first to capitalize on this trend and soon after, consumer application development started to occur using HTTP to share content and web browsers to display content. Today, virtually all consumer applications use some form of HTTP (such as Amazon, Facebook, LinkedIn, etc.) with many organizations taking advantage of the numerous other protocol layers out there. With the blockchain industry still in its infancy, we are seeing many of the same trends as the early 90’s to build protocol layers that can eventually support mass adoptable consumer applications.

Problems with Blockchain Adoption

The blockchain developer ecosystem is growing: from October 2017 to October 2018, solidity package downloads tripled, the number of new decentralized applications released per week doubled, and OpenZeppelin (popular framework for smart contract development) downloads almost grew tenfold (source).

Developers building on platforms are motivated to build on a blockchain as long as the platform allows them to acquire users, scale across the users and monetize their applications.

When it comes to end-user acquisition adoption and the ability of current blockchains to scale applications across the larger user base, the existing solutions fall short of their promises.

Usability

What’s the problem with user acquisition?

The user coming from web 2.0 to blockchain faces a lot of challenges with basic concepts of this new paradigm.

The biggest problem or friction is that you have to pay for every transaction, even if the transaction is not monetary. This means that in order to create their first transaction, the users have to go through multiple steps, involving installing software, creating an account and funding the account.

In order to fund the account, the user would need to convert his fiat (USD) into cryptocurrency using some exchange. This usually involves some identification and sharing of personalized information with a centralized entity — which ruins the purpose of a decentralized environment. This clearly slows down adoption, since most people are not willing to share personalized information in the blockchain space, whereas sharing of personal information for mobile application usage is common practice.

At NEAR Protocol, we use a different transaction model: instead of paying per transaction, we use a rate limiter. Essentially, the user can send some amount of the transaction based on a per unit of time while the rate limiter is backed by bandwidth staking. Bandwidth stake doesn’t have to come from the user and other accounts or contracts can stake on behalf of the user. This allows new users to create transactions without having any money in their account. This means that a person who just opened the app for the first time can start using it almost immediately.

How does this work? When the user first visits the website, we either use their existing identity (similar to Metamask) or create an ephemeral account for them as a temporary identity. This ephemeral account can be used and later converted to a real account. The keys can be stored in local storage and the application can temporarily stake on behalf of this new account after some verification to prevent Sybil attack (for example: checking a phone number or some other form of login). After some time, the application’s stake is returned back to its account and can be reused again.

In other words, NEAR solves the issue of the user having to fund an account before using the application. Needless to say, it’s a major point of friction today: in popular decentralized applications, the dropoff rates for sign-ups go up to 97–99%. In other words, there is interest and demand, but users today can’t use apps due to monetary reasons.

While it’s now possible for a user to conduct their very first transaction in a decentralized application without any monetary support, we now look at potential security issues a user may face to keep their new account secure.

In most blockchain protocols, a users identity is linked to the user’s public key or at least a unique private key. This means if the private key is exposed, you have to re-create your account with a new private key and move everything to a new account (which might not even be possible due to fact that state data could be stored in other applications). Additionally, the private key cannot be trusted to be stored with other parties since the malicious third party can duplicate the key and get possession of user’s funds.

At NEAR Protocol, the user and contract identity is not a computer generated public key. Instead, it’s an alphanumeric string (some additional characters) such as a domain name, phone number, email or just a name. This makes it easy for people to read and remember account IDs. This allows an account to have a variable number of public keys associated with it and transferring accounts by swapping public key.

This can be used in at onboarding phase, an application can create an account on your behalf and then transfer ownership to the user when requested. A user would need to only provide the public key and receive full ownership of such an account. Importantly, this account can now be used with other applications.

Another use case is allowing each device to have their own key pair. Then when new device is added, the current device can just authorize new public key and add it to the account. This way, private key doesn’t need to transfer between devices or even be seen by the user.

In essence, NEAR Protocol allows developers to onboard new users without any additional software (using the concept of ephemeral accounts and bandwidth staking), while also allowing more advanced end users to use the application in a fully decentralized manner.

Scalability

What is the problem with the current base protocol scalability?

From NEAR Protocol’s sharding blog post: “It is well-known that Ethereum, the most used general purpose blockchain at the time of this writing, can only process less than 20 transactions per second on the main chain. This limitation, coupled with the popularity of the network, leads to high gas prices (the cost of executing a transaction on the network) and long confirmation times; despite the fact that at the time of this writing a new block is produced approximately every 10–20 seconds while the average time it actually takes for a transaction to be added to the blockchain is 1.2 minutes, according to ETH Gas Station. Low throughput, high prices, and high latency all make Ethereum not suitable to run services that need to scale with adoption.”

Why are current solutions so slow? It’s because each node does all of the work for the system: processing transactions, relaying the validated transactions and completed blocks to other nodes, and storing states and histories of the system on each node individually.

Sharding in NEAR Protocol
Sharding of blockchain (which includes sharding of state and processing) solves these limitations because nodes in each shard are building their own blockchain that contains transactions that affect only the local part of the global state that is assigned to that shard. Therefore, the validators in the shard only need to store their local part of the global state and only execute, and as such only relay, transactions that affect their part of the state. This partition linearly reduces the requirement on all compute power, storage, and network bandwidth.

For an in-depth discussion on blockchain sharding, check out our other blog here. Needless to mention, sharding introduces some additional complexities and therefore new problems, with many of them being unsolved as of now. We’ve covered such problems in this blog post.

However, an important additional benefit is that higher throughput will decrease each transaction cost which will make it cheaper for everyone to use blockchain.

Industry Set For Change

With scalable application and base protocol layers in the works, there has been a rise of consumer-facing applications that are trying to capture aggregate value with users to solve real-world use cases within the financial sector. Developing fractionalized lending platforms (ie asset tokenization platforms) where users can own shares of historically illiquid assets has grown in popularity over the last couple of years. While not directly related to the blockchain space, companies such as Realty Shares, Fund Rise, Lending Home, and Cadre are among the numerous companies that are taking a distributed approach to investing. From the consumer side, capital can be invested into a variety of real estate deals with no more than a small minimum buy-in while all back-office tasks (legal, underwriting, etc.) are taken care of. Furthering the push to capture consumer-based market share, there has also been a rise of mobile-first financial planning and investment platforms seeking to provide users access to stocks (and cryptocurrencies) with the push of a button and with no transaction fees. Robinhood is among the leaders seeking to provide value to the average investor with more than 4 million user account registrations and a valuation of $5.6 billion. Traditional investment platforms are paving the way for consumer-facing blockchain products to grow and it’s only a matter of time before using programmable money to guide the purchase and sale of fractionalized partnership, real estate, or alternative investment interests can come to fruition. While companies such as Harbor and Trust Token are making waves to further these goals, it seems as though the days of requiring large minimum buy-ins, having access to deal flow, or locking up capital may be a thing of the past as protocol/application layers are working together to garner user adoption and appeal to the average consumer.

Conclusion

As of the time of this writing, nobody knows what the initial blockchain use cases with mass adoption will look like. Since monetary transactions are baked into the chain, the first applications will likely involve financial transaction services, however, the potential for adoption within other vertices are still being explored. Blockchain developments reliant upon security and trust have created the idea of fungible tokens, leading to native use cases such as CryptoKitties. But once the technology is far enough along to facilitate more cost-effective transactions, we might see completely new applications being adopted.

In this blog post, we’ve covered the history of monetary systems as well as how programmable money has allowed transactions to not only be quantifiable (as in the case of traditional tech marketplaces, like eBay or Amazon), but also verifiable and secure. We then looked at how adoption might come from better approaches to the current usability and scalability models that can help blockchain technology pave the way for an industry set for change. With the right public and private capital support, tokenized investment funds can replace traditional investment platforms that may help consumer-facing blockchain products to grow in the financial services sector. We see it as only a matter of time before using programmable money will guide the purchase and sale of fractionalized partnership, real estate, or alternative investment interests that can be readily available for consumer use.

Outro

NEAR Protocol builds a sharded general purpose blockchain with a huge emphasis on usability. If you like our write-ups, follow us on Twitter to learn when we post new content:

Twitter
If you want to be more involved, join our Discord channel where we discuss all technical and non-technical aspects of NEAR Protocol, such as consensus, economics, and governance:

Discord
Lastly, please subscribe to our newsletter. We send bi-weekly updates, and this is the best channel to learn about our progress towards the launch of NEAR Protocol.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Thanks to Evgeny Kuzyakov (Linkedin & Medium), Mitch Somach (LinkedIn & Medium) & Random Bares for providing a bulk of the thought leadership on this blog post.


A Deep Dive into DAOs: Life Changing DAOs
COMMUNITY
March 25, 2022
In 2016, a few members of the Ethereum community came together to create a platform that would allow individuals to pitch project ideas. Community members would vote on these ideas using tokens they bought in exchange for sending Ether to a unique wallet address. 

This was how the first DAO, or decentralized autonomous organization, was created. Since then the pace and development of the Web3 tool has exploded. Today, communities across the globe are using DAOs to help gather, organize, and distribute funds to causes that matter. On NEAR, there are dozens of DAOs working and collaborating in an open and transparent way. 

This feature explores how DAOs are being used to change lives in different and radically new ways. 

Unchain Fund – Raising Funds for Humanitarian Causes 
Rev Miller, Co-founder of Atlantis World, a Web3 social metaverse, was on holiday in Dubai when news about the Ukraine war broke out. 

“I couldn’t just stand still,” he says. “I wanted to create a fundraiser or volunteer or just do something.”

Miller immediately reached out to people and communities he knew in the crypto space to start some sort of initiative that could help Ukrainians impacted by the war. Miller joined forces with several others who also wanted to get involved. 

“I don’t trust non-profits in general because a lot of them lack transparency,” he says. “I’ve been in the blockchain space for years so I was like, hey, what if we created this initiative within the intersection of Web3, where you can have your funds publicly shown and are operated and run by trusted people.”

Unchain Fund now has about 50 core members and hundreds of volunteers globally and across Ukraine. To date, the organization has raised $7 million, of which it has distributed $2 million to people on the ground. 

Miller says the team is currently working on its distribution model to prevent scams. The DAO partnered with a Ukrainian bank to issue an online card that distributes funds directly to individuals. They can use the cards to buy food and pay for other services.

Unchain Fund is permissionless, meaning anyone can become a contributor. However, there are different layers of contribution. Volunteers, for instance, have limits on how much funding they can receive to help people on the ground. Additionally, individuals seeking help must fill out a detailed application that asks for contact information, proof of identification, an address where they can be reached, and more. 

Miller says this was a necessary step to take because Unchain Fund receives 1,000 applications a day on average and that number is only rising. He also emphasizes that the DAO certainly has some centralized aspects. 

“There are some things we just can’t wait a week to make a decision on through governance because people are dying. At the end of the day, there are some things that are unfortunately still based on human trust,” Miller says. “DAOs and Web3 are definitely the way to become resistant to events like these, but due to Web3 tooling, we are able to coordinate global power and resources for a public good that needs to be addressed here and now.” 


Marma J Dao – Empowering Grassroot Communities 
When Chloe Lewis started Marma J DAO in the spring of last year, her goal was to come up with a way to more efficiently and transparently manage crypto assets as a community. The DAO, named after Lewis’ grandmother, is a part of the Marma J Foundation, an organization that aims to leverage Web3 technology for social good. 

The DAO’s most recent initiative, #maksimourhero, raised funds for Maksim, a ten-year-old diagnosed with medulloblastoma, a cancer that begins in the brain or spinal cord. Marma J Foundation raised funds to help Maksim’s family with his relocation, lodging, and medical treatments. The DAO invited artists to create Valentine’s cards which would then be minted and sold through a simple sale.
The initiative was quite successful, according to Lewis. Dozens of NFTs were created and minted by Marma J DAO, with 90% of the proceeds going to Maksim, with the rest earmarked for the DAO. 

“It was great to see so many people in the ecosystem learning how to use custom function calls on their DAO to mint NFTs,” Lewis says.

Marma J DAO has led many other initiatives focused on not only social good but also Web3 education, including teaching users how to leverage tools in the NEAR ecosystem and how to mint an NFT through a DAO. Marma J DAO generally funds initiatives to support members of the Marma J community using its treasury of native tokens.

Currently, the DAO is comprised of nine unique addresses that form its council, as well as 47 members. The DAO’s council members vote on proposals with the goal of “spreading love and positivity in the open web ecosystem,” according to its website. 

The collective uses Marma J DAO to hold and distribute NEAR assets to and from Marma J community members. The Marma J Foundation uses DAO-launching platform Astro to manage the DAO—its membership, decision-making, and funding are coordinated publicly on the NEAR blockchain. 

“We realized that if we had our foundational assets in a proof-of-stake network where we were supporting the NEAR ecosystem just from staking our NEAR tokens, which we could then use to convert into goods and services to spread to the community, that could be a more viable path moving forward,” Lewis said in a video breakdown of the Marma J Foundation. 

“The largest difference between DAOs and a company is that the DAO has no legally binding obligations, just smart contracts to control logic,” Lewis says. 

Aurora DAO – Helping Protocols Give Control to their Communities 
Imagine a board of directors making decisions in a company, except that instead of doing so behind closed doors and allocating all power to a select few, the board is fed information from the rest of the company and uses this data to make company-wide choices. 

The Aurora DAO functions as this exact sort of decentralized board of directors, created as a way to govern the Aurora protocol, an Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) smart contract platform that creates a bridge between Ethereum and NEAR. Holders of Aurora DAO are able to vote on high-level matters concerning the Aurora protocol, as well as other administrative and operational decisions. 

Aurora DAO organizer Aliaksei Papou explained that Aurora’s EVM was developed to be entirely permissionless, and its governance through the DAO was devised with this goal in mind. Aurora DAO approved the creation of a “community treasury” with a significant portion of the Aurora token supply, which will be used to fund projects being built on Aurora.

“It makes perfect sense to offload the decision-making in this respect to the members of the community since they are the primary users of those projects, and are the ones who are most interested in a healthy ecosystem growth,” Papou says. “Meanwhile, more complex or technical matters, like protocol upgrades, will be the prerogative of the DAO Council, as the Council is represented by experts in such specific aspects.”

Papou says the DAO was formed by well-known representatives of the crypto space. To ensure wide representation, the council consists of principal Aurora investors who have more experience in investment matters, Aurora ecosystem partners who have more experience in technical projects, and members of Aurora Labs itself. 

“With further decentralization of the governance, many important decisions will be delegated to the community,” Papou said. “So the DAO will perform the role of the board of directors, similarly to traditional companies, while they will be elected by the community as well.” 

Aurora DAO uses the SputnikDAO framework for operations. The DAO currently has 13 councils, each of whom votes on different proposals including council management, DAO smart contract upgrades, contract calls, and payouts. 

“Simply put, it’s decentralization,” Papou said. “Trusted people with various competencies, who do not necessarily know each other, make decisions about the protocol.”

Developer DAO – Helping People Learn Together 
Developer DAO is a community of like-minded individuals committed to participating, learning, and contributing to the future of Web3. The DAO aims to accelerate the education and impact of new builders in the Web3 space. 

To join, individuals must hold a D4R NFT that can now only be bought on the secondary market or won in contests and giveaways (the original NFT mint has ended). Developer DAO also offers a scholarship program for free entry that’s available to anyone who wants to join. The DAO today has nearly 6,000 individual NFT holders. 

Developer DAO started as an experiment in September 2021 by Nader Dabit, who live-coded and launched the DAO on his YouTube channel. From there, the DAO grew organically. Individuals, who joined after seeing Dabit promote it on Twitter, began organizing the Discord and developing the DAO’s mission. 

“I initially started it in the hope of having a community of developers to learn and build together with,” Dabit says. “After joining Friends With Benefits, I really loved the community but wanted to have more engineers to hang out with and talk to. We’re about seven months in and we’re still figuring things out, but we’ve accomplished a lot already and have a lot of exciting things that we’re working on right now.”

For core member Will Kempster, one of the best things about being a part of a DAO is how everything is community-driven. 

“No one person is in control. You’re free to drop in and out when it suits you and people are generally free to do what they want so long as it is in line with our mission, values, and goals,” Kempster says. “The biggest issue is probably coordination, organizing about 6,000 people in a DAO via Discord that was created without any prior planning is an interesting challenge but we’re starting to get a good handle on things!”

For moderator Narbeh Shahnazarian, DAOs are similar to startups in that one can be wearing multiple hats and be leading multiple efforts simultaneously. 

“The great thing about Developer DAO is you can literally go and get started in any which way you want and are empowered to come up with and lead new initiatives,” he says. “The DAO does have areas for improvement but things will most definitely improve over time as we learn from our experiences and apply those to future endeavors.” 

“I like to refer to the current iteration of Developer DAO as ‘beautiful chaos,” he adds.

Komorebi Collective – Elevating New Voices in Crypto Community
Komorebi Collective is a DAO formed by women in the blockchain space to support crypto companies founded by female and non-binary individuals. The DAO was formed by Manasi Vora, Medha Kothari, and Kinjal Shah, and currently has 35 members, some of whom are from crypto organizations Women in Blockchain and she256 (founded by Vora and Kothari respectively).

Komorebi is a Japanese expression that describes sunlight filtering through trees. These rays of light, according to Vora, illuminate the forest undergrowth that is otherwise difficult to see. 

“Komorebi Collective aims to illuminate and elevate a group of otherwise underestimated visionary founders building in crypto,” Vora says. 

Komorebi invests in teams and products created by female and non-binary founders, which the DAO wants to see flourish in the Web3 space.

“DAOs have a lot of potential to bring communities together and channel capital towards identified missions, but they require a good amount of coordination across members and need processes in place for it to be efficient,” Vora says. “It might not be the best tool for everything crypto. It’s like the early days of blockchain where you need to ask: does this need a DAO?”

Komorebi Collective is almost 70% deployed and has invested in several companies so far, including Apricot Finance and FormFunction. The collective is slated to raise its second round of funding in the next few weeks.

SailGP DAO – Reimagining Team Sport Management on NEAR
A ground-breaking multi-year partnership between NEAR and SailGP, one of the world’s fastest-growing sailing events, will explore the sale of a new team to a DAO launched on the NEAR Protocol. This will make the SailGP DAO a first-of-its-kind community engagement and activation platform for professional sports. 

The SailGP team DAO will be a community project—a major break from traditional sports team ownership structures. DAO members will, through proposals, have a say athlete selection, team management, commercialization options, as well as overall team strategy and operations. 

“Our mission is to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world, and this partnership is a fantastic example of exactly that,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, the non-for profit entity that oversees the NEAR blockchain’s development. 

SailGP and the NEAR community will collaborate on several new projects—each designed to inspire Web3 developers on the NEAR protocol. As partners, SailGP and NEAR will also work on integrated technology and research and development projects for offerings like events ticketing, NFT and gaming, and mobile app integration. 

On-site experiences and activations at global SailGP events will help traditional industries transition to Web3 through NEAR’s simple, secure, and scalable blockchain platform. NEAR will also leverage SailGP’s global technology platform to build real-world intellectual property and Web3 applications that will cover fan engagement, data delivery and management, league management, and more. 

This new DAO team could join the SailGP starting line-up for Season 4 in 2023.

“We welcome NEAR to the SailGP family and we are looking forward to them participating in the most exciting racing on-water, featuring the world’s best sailors,” SailGP Founder Larry Ellison said.

“This deal presents an exciting opportunity to change how fans can directly influence and participate in the sports they love,” added Mark Shapiro, President of Endeavor, part of IMG and a strategic investor in SailGP. “We are proud to have brokered this ground-breaking partnership which is the culmination of what happens when sport, technology and entertainment collide.”

The DAO revolution
DAOs are transforming the way individuals join forces to work towards a common goal, whether it is social, cultural, technological, or financial. Unchain Fund, Aurora DAO, Marma J DAO, Developer DAO, and Komorebi Collective are just a few examples of DAOs using transparency and decentralized collaboration to work towards changing society as we know it. 

These are still early days for DAOs on NEAR and other blockchains—much remains to be done to optimize the DAO ecosystem for mass Web3 adoption. Launchpads like Sputnik, AstroDAO, NearPad, and other services being built by developers will all be critical in unleashing the next wave of DAO innovation. 

To fully tap the power of DAOs, things like tooling, standards, and management will also need to be refined and built up, so that other autonomous organizations and Web3 services can efficiently interact with DAOs, creating more integrations with the physical world.  
NEAR Protocol Roadmap 2023-4: The Next 2 Years of NEAR
COMMUNITY
November 9, 2022
This post, written by Pagoda’s Head of Protocol Bowen Wang, originally appeared on the Web3 startup platform and main contributor to the core Protocol Pagoda’s blog.

NEAR has evolved tremendously in the two years since the mainnet launch in October 2020. More than 20 protocol upgrades were done live, most recently the launch of Sharding Phase 1. As we look ahead to the next two phases of sharding and beyond, it’s time for an updated protocol roadmap.

This post will outline the next two years of evolving the NEAR Protocol and the technical priorities we believe will benefit builders and users the most. The roadmap is meant to be a living document and anyone is welcome to make suggestions or proposals on how the protocol should evolve.

The roadmap has two major components: Experience and Core. The Experience section encompasses user and/or developer experience and the protocol features needed to enable those experiences. As an example, an iPhone user can freely start to use applications built on top of NEAR without having to register an account if we have meta transactions and support for Secp256r1 keys.

The Core section, on the other hand, covers major efforts to improve the scalability and decentralization of the protocol. Most notably, this features the launch of phase 2 of sharding, which scales the network to 100 shards with no validators tracking all shards. Phase 2 is planned for 2023. The roadmap goes through 2024 with the delivery of phase 3 of sharding, which dynamically adjusts the number of shards based on demand.

Head over to the Pagoda blog to read the NEAR Protocol Roadmap 2023-4 with infographics.


NEAR and Startup Wise Guys Partner on MetaBUILD’s Pre-Accelerator Program
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 16, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Startup Wise Guys — Europe’s biggest startup accelerator, which has empowered over 350 projects across the world. Together with SWG, the Foundation will bring  20 winning projects from the MetaBUILD III hackathon into an 8-week pre-acceleration program to grow and prepare these new teams to bring their first product iteration to market.

The partnership’s goal is to bring great new products to life in Web3. After the hack, NEAR Foundation and Startup Wise Guys will prepare all projects to join accelerators, make their first raise, and launch to market. 

Startup Wise Guys’ Pre-Acceleration Program for MetaBUILD
Let’s go over the program. For this occasion, we’ll be running an 8-week program with Startup Wise Guys, covering everything from finding your project’s mission, to setting up team structure, finance, and communication programs for your brand.


Each week covers a specific topic, and will feature both recorded and live events as well as exercises for the projects to take on! 

Each week, all teams will progress to fleshing out their new project’s company setup, brand, and prepare to launch to market. Throughout the program, Startup Wise Guys and NEAR will aid projects with 1-1 mentorships (invited from the ecosystem and from Startup Wise Guys’ network), pitch training and drills, Q&As, and a folder of ready-to-use learning materials.

Week 1: Onboarding Session
Onboarding of all projects into the program, and setting expectations for all upcoming weeks and events.

Week 2: Setting Goals & KPIs
Structuring each project’s journey. How to find a mission and vision for your project long term.

Week 3: Problem Definition & Pitching
Crafting your project’s pitch and problem-to-be-solved to define your selling points.

Week 4: Product development & effective planning
Planning the product’s development, and identifying key differentiators to give it unique aspects in the market.

Week 5: Focus and Execution
Crisis-handling in companies, and pace. How to maintain your team’s rhythm.

Week 6: Sales & Team Management Basics
Sales, marketing, and branding for early startups and projects. How to define your vector for gaining traction in the world.

Week 7: Company Communications, Finances, Fundraising
Company communications and finance preparations. How to define your key metrics of success, and prepare a structure to present to investors, as well as how to seek and select the right ones.

Week 8: Legal Basics
How to register your business, understanding your basic legal structure and needs to get started as a company. Also, going over any regulatory requirements like GDPR, and Intellectual Property, as well as minimizing legal needs.

Week 9: Graduation & Pitches!
Final day! Graduated projects who completed the program will present their project’s revamped pitches and go out to the world.

Come Hack, and Build On!
NEAR Foundation can’t wait to see the new exciting projects that will be born from MetaBUILD, and is excited about this new partnership with Startup Wise Guys in 2023. 

The Foundation will share all progress along the way as we finalize the submission phase of MetaBUILD and move onto judging. So stay tuned and follow all updates on Twitter!
NFTs on NEAR: Where Will NFTs Go Next?
COMMUNITY
May 26, 2022
For a relatively new type of digital asset, non-fungible tokens, have permeated the mainstream at an incredibly fast rate. After Christie’s auction of Beeple’s “Everydays – The First 5000 Days” NFT in 2021, other artists like Pak and Roger Kilimanjaro followed with their own major NFT sales. And Yuga Labs’ Bored Ape Yacht Club collection, released the the same year, turned cartoonish collectible “cards” into a multi-chain NFT art genre.

NFTs exist on the blockchain and typically represent ownership of unique digital collectibles like music, video, artwork, land, and more. But beyond creative works, what other NFT use cases already exist? And what other types of NFTs might emerge in the coming months and years? 

This feature explores how projects building in the NEAR ecosystem are leveraging NFT technology in new and exciting ways. 

Open Forest Protocol: NFTs for sustainable climate conservation
For many nonprofits and volunteer organizations with a social cause, a major challenge is maintaining complete transparency on their activities. This can include initiatives, funding, and resources, as well as a roadmap for accomplishing their goals. 

But what if an organization’s work was completely transparent, trustless, and easily accessible to all? NEAR-native decentralized community Open Forest Protocol (OFP) is doing precisely this for its environmental conservation efforts. 

The team of over 30 forest project operators, validators, and community members is working to scale forest-based climate solutions. To do this, the OFP network uses NFTs to represent forestation projects by tracking their progress and growth over time. Each project’s information is permanently stored and updated in the token’s metadata, making it all 100% transparent and traceable. 

OFP’s blockchain-based validation model rewards the creation and protection of forested zones. This paves the way for the creation of economic incentives around forest regeneration and carbon sequestration (carbon capture). 

“We are bringing the entire business of forestation on-chain, making forestation not only scalable, but economically viable where it wasn’t before,” says Rimberjack, who leads community development at OFP.

According to Rimberjack, NFTs are important because not all assets on-chain are the traditional coins that immediately come to mind. 

“NFTs allow the on-chain representation of assets like ‘land’ for projects like OFP which validates data from forests,” says Rimberjack. “This then allows us to tie all the data regarding these forest areas to their unique location and characteristics because the underlying asset is represented non-fungibly.”

OFP is currently grappling with two major challenges: a general lack of awareness of carbon markets, and mainstream adoption. Many people know little about carbon markets, carbon credits, and other sustainable financial systems that can better protect our world.  

“By having forests represented on-chain as NFTs, and storing all the data relevant to it in its metadata, we are able to solve all these problems,” says OFP Forest Project Coordinator Sue. “You now know which forest your carbon credits came from, how many trees were planted, how much carbon they sequestered, and whether the data was verified in a legitimate way. It’s all there in the NFT, open to all to verify.” 

Naksh Marketplace: NFTs by Indian artists from all walks of life
Naksh Marketplace is an Indian NFT platform on NEAR that caters to artists and artisans from across the country. The app works with artists from parts of India where blockchain technology is not commonly known or used. The marketplace helps these artists digitize their work and showcase it as NFTs. 

The Naksh Marketplace hosts a curated collection of artworks produced in the Indian cultural context. The art includes both traditional and new media. The platform’s goal is to resurrect conversations about the ancient Indian practices and artforms that are starting to fade away.

Some of the most pressing issues Naksh is facing today have centered on additional NFT implementations and utilities.

“We’ve been seeing a lot of conversations around NFTs and utility recently and that’s something that we have plans around,” says Sri Lakshmi, co-founder of Naksh. “At Naksh we have been working on Redeemable NFTs for the fine art we have on our platform, since the uniqueness, artistic style, colors, and medium that are used by the artists at Naksh are very rare.” 

According to Lakshmi, there is also a lot of ongoing experimentation at Naksh with the apparel and accessories industry. The marketplace is also looking into expanding into fashion, partnering with fashion brands and providing B2B (business-to-business) services. Naksh could partner with fashion brands to to showcase product as NFTs, which customers could buy as both physical and NFT products.

“The entire team has dove headfirst into building the product to ensure that we only show the best version of Naksh, and we are very proud of how our marketplace looks!” says Lakshmi. “When we launched our beta we realized that we hadn’t been paying a lot of attention to our community. We’ve been making up for this over the last few months, and we will continue to ramp this up going forward.” 

NEAR x Publish: An NFT printing service 
When Samuel Flores co-founded NEAR x Publish in early 2022, he wanted to create a printing service  on NEAR. A service that experimented with both digital and physical media via NFTs. 

Based in San Diego, Flores and a four-person team began creating products with QR codes and other digital features. The vision paid off, as NEAR x Publish was recently featured as San Diego’s NFTCon’s merchandise partner.

Through NEAR x Publish, Flores wants to create different, customizable roadmaps for creators to come in and launch their project. How this process unfolds will depend on the creator’s wants and needs. 

Flores himself is a comic book artist who wanted to create comic book NFT. He parlayed this ambition into work as a colorist and letterer for NFT marketplace Paras Comic. While at Paras Comic, Flores experimented with different marketing and exposure strategies. In the process, he learned a lot about the NFT industry. 

More recently, the NEAR x Publish team has been focused on building different partnerships with creators and other NFT marketplaces. The goal is to tie all the resources in the NEAR ecosystem together, rather than projects operating in isolation. 

“When I first entered the NEAR ecosystem, I noticed everyone was super encouraging,” says Flores. “But I also didn’t see a ton of collaboration between guilds and businesses building in the same space.” 

Flores says that many NFT projects, particularly PFP (profile picture) projects, have one particular idea they want to execute. But after realizing that idea, they aren’t sure what to do next. 

“The idea was to have an idea of where we want things to go from the beginning so it’s not just a dead end,” says Flores. “So, building roadmaps to facilitate all these different ideations and bringing them full circle.” 

NEAR x Publish recently collaborated with NEAR Hub, a metaverse experience users can log into using just their NEAR wallets. Within this NEARverse, users have control and ownership of their data and assets. The two projects just launched comics.nearhub.club – a generative comic book cover generator that creates 1 of 1 comic book covers.

NEAR x Publish has several upcoming projects in the pipeline. It’s helping the Marma J Foundation, an organizationo on NEAR that is leveraging Web3 technology for social good. And this June, NEAR x Publish is also will be a sponsored partner at the NEAR Hacker House during the Consensus conference in Austin, Texas.  

Endemic: Carbon-Neutral NFTs with Social Elements
The word endemic is often used to describe something native and restricted to a certain place. That’s what Hrvoje Zuanić and Milan Mašanović wanted to build with Endemic, a multichain, carbon-neutral NFT marketplace with social elements. 

Launched on the Aurora network in February, Endemic showcases quality art from reputable sources to a global network of high-net-worth individuals and institutional collectors. Its art collection comes from artist communities in every part of the world. 

The Endemic team consists of around 20 members who work in art, curation, development and marketing. The marketplace prides itself on its organic community of a combined 5,000 users across different social media platforms. 

“We know that a lot of marketplaces pump up their numbers with fake followers and have botted up accounts, so Endemic is taking a completely different and alternative approach,” says co-founder Zuanić. “Of course, we could pump up our numbers artificially but that’s just a short-term pump that has no foundation in your product quality and innovation. We think that it’s most important to focus on the product quality, and when the product is 100% ready then do a big marketing push.”

Endemic is the only NFT marketplace whose core team includes a curator and art team. Every piece is curated and carefully selected based on quality and social visibility. Endemic’s embedded social elements, which inludde liking, following, comments and blogging enables artists to make deeper connections. These features also allows artists to grow their audience, and present their art in the best possible way. 

“Some say that physical art is not suitable for crypto—we disagree,” says Mašanović. “By educating the masses we’re trying to shorten the needed period of time for people to transfer feelings and attachments from the physical world to digital.”

Endemic offers both NFTs and physical redeemable art. There are no primary or secondary fees—only a fixed percentage of 2.5% from the buyer and 2.5% from the seller. Artists can also set royalties from 1 to 15%.

“Digital ownership is something that we’re going to face more and more, and the new generations are more aware of it. It’s more important to them and we’re going to see even more adaption than we had until now,” says Zuanić. “In every business, especially with marketplaces and NFTs, feedback is important and with social components, there is a two-way conversation all the time. Art can get feedback from customers, users, collectors, community and vice versa—it’s great for the quality of the art, for the quality of the community and the whole sphere.”

A Bright Future Ahead?
The NFT projects that are building on NEAR play vital roles in the ecosystem. Not only are they expanding use cases but they are also pushing these unique digital assets further into the mainstream. 

Projects like Open Forest Project, Naksh Market, NEAR x Publish and Endemic are paving the way new and exciting NFT use cases. This will allow NFTs to go beyond art and collectibles into assets that can bring communities together and improve the world as we know it. 
NEAR and Nansen Partner on On-Chain Analytics for Founders and Investors
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 18, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Nansen, a blockchain analytics firm, on advanced tools for dApp developers and investors. Led by the NEAR Balkans Hub, the partnership with Nansen will give developers and investors new insights and data-driven solutions, like real-time data on transactions, addresses, and network activity.

“We are excited to join forces with Nansen to offer our developer community even more valuable insights,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This partnership enables us to enhance our ecosystem and bring advanced analytics tools and data-driven insights to the forefront of the Web3 movement, ultimately accelerating the widespread adoption of decentralized applications.”

Nansen gives users access to billions of on-chain data points
With Nansen’s analytics platform, developers, investors, and other users get a comprehensive view of blockchain activity. This includes transaction flows, wallet holdings, and on-chain activity. 

Nansen enables users to analyze billions of on-chain data points with over 250m+ wallet addresses across multiple blockchains, discover opportunities, perform due diligence, and defend their portfolios with real-time dashboards and alerts. The platform also provides users with a suite of tools for monitoring blockchain projects and tracking their performance.

Alex Svanevik, CEO of Nansen, said that the platform is excited to join NEAR Foundation in giving NEAR in expediting “the next chapter of Web3 and empower[ing] developers to craft even more robust dApps.” 

“We’re proud to have led this partnership — our commitment to enabling future Web3 creators is reflected in everything we do, and we are excited to unlock that potential through the power of decentralization,” adds Ida Pandur, CEO of NEAR Balkans. “At the heart of our mission is a desire to empower individuals to create and innovate in a brand new way, and we are committed to continuing our efforts to make this vision a reality.”

As NEAR evolves into the Blockchain Operating System, a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences, compatible with all blockchains, this collaboration will help drive innovation on NEAR and onboard many new developers, investors, and end users into Web3. 
   Bud1  8      8     	     0                                       ;       A R   a t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              % N E A R   a t   E T H D e n v e r   2 0 2 2   H i g h l i g h t s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ        ) N E A R   T r a n s p a r e n c y   R e p o r t :   N o v e m b e r   2 5 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ) N E A R   C o m m u n i t y   U p d a t e :   M a r c h   2 2 ,   2 0 1 9 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     + N E A R   C o m m u n i t y   U p d a t e :   M a r c h   2 7 t h ,   2 0 2 0 . t x tdilcblob                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                @                                              @                                                @                                                @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6 N E A R   W a l l e t   U p d a t e :   S t a k i n g   a n d   W i t h d r a w i n g   T o k e n s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     # N E A R  s   M a y   T o w n   H a l l   H i g h l i g h t s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ) N i g h t s h a d e   |   N E A R   U p d a t e   J u l y   1 ,   2 0 1 9 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     & O c t o p u s   N e t w o r k   P a r t n e r s   w i t h   N E A R . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     7 O f f   t o   t h e   R a c e s :   Z E S T   L a u n c h e s   o n   t h e   N E A R   M a i n n e t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     + O n   u s a b i l i t y   o f   b l o c k c h a i n   a p p l i c a t i o n s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ      O p e n   s o u r c i n g   N E A R   c l i e n t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     Q O v e r v i e w   o f   L a y e r   2   a p p r o a c h e s :   P l a s m a ,   S t a t e   C h a n n e l s ,   S i d e   C h a i n s ,   R o l l   U p s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     / P o s t   M o r t e m :   N E A R   D i s c o r d   S e c u r i t y   I n c i d e n t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     9 R e g i s t e r   f o r   N E A R  s   J u n e   T o w n   H a l l -   N E A R   a t   C o n s e n s u s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ' S e n d   N E A R   t o   A n y o n e   w i t h   N E A R   D r o p s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ' S o f t w a r e   E a t i n g   F i n a n c i a l   C o n t r a c t s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   N @Æ  Fÿÿÿÿÿÿ      S t a k e   W a r s   E p i s o d e   I I . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     / T h e   B e g i n n e r  s   G u i d e   t o   t h e   N E A R   B l o c k c h a i n . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     * T h e   N E A R   B l o c k c h a i n   i s   C l i m a t e   N e u t r a l . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     : T h e   N E A R   M a i n N e t   i s   n o w   U n r e s t r i c t e d   a n d   D e c e n t r a l i z e d . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     " T h e   R o a d   t o   M a i n N e t   a n d   B e y o n d . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     = W h y   d o e s n  t   N E A R   j u s t   r e p l i c a t e   E t h e r e u m   S e r e n i t y   d e s i g n ? . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     : W h y   N E A R  s   E c o s y s t e m   R e m a i n s   P r i m e d   f o r   G r o w t h   i n   2 0 2 2 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . A   D e e p   D i v e   i n t o   D A O s :   E x p l o r i n g   A s t r o   D A O . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     1 A   D e e p   D i v e   i n t o   P r i v a t e   T r a n s a c t i o n s   o n   N E A R . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ? A I   i s   N E A R :   T h e   F u t u r e   o f   A I   o n   t h e   O p e n   W e b   a t   N E A R C O N    2 3 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     S B i t G o   B e c o m e s   F i r s t   Q u a l i f i e d   C u s t o d i a n   t o   S u p p o r t   N E A R   P r o t o c o l   a n d   i t s   A s s e t s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ? B l o c k c h a i n   P r o m i s e   f o r   M u s i c   I n d u s t r y   ( I n d u s t r y   B a c k g r o u n d ) . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     = B l o c k c h a i n   S c a l i n g   A p p r o a c h e s :   N E A R   S h a r d i n g   v s .   L a y e r   2 s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     r C o i n 9 8   L a u n c h e s   D e c e n t r a l i z e d   D a p p   S t o r e   f o r   i t s   7   M i l l i o n   U s e r s   o n   N E A R  s   B l o c k c h a i n   O p e r a t i n g   S y s t e m   ( B . O . S ) . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     L C o s m o s e   a n d   N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n   S e t   T o   R e v o l u t i o n i z e   R e t a i l   w i t h   W e b 3   a n d   A I . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     = C u s t o m e r   a c q u i s i t i o n   p l a t f o r m   h e l p s   c r y p t o   c o m p a n i e s   g r o w . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     1 E c o s y s t e m   U p d a t e   o n   D e c e n t r a l i z i n g   G o v e r n a n c e . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ? E m b r a c i n g   D e c e n t r a l i z a t i o n :   W h a t  s   N e x t   f o r   t h e   N E A R   W a l l e t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     # E t h e r s c a n   w i l l   L a u n c h   o n   A u r o r a . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ      H a p p y   H a c k i n g . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     8 H i g h l i g h t s   f r o m   N E A R   a t   P a r i s   B l o c k c h a i n   W e e k   S u m m i t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     B H o w   t h e   N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n   i s   S u p p o r t i n g   N e t w o r k   D e c e n t r a l i z a t i o n . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ( H o w   V i e t n a m   B e c a m e   a   W e b 3   P o w e r h o u s e . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     | I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C r i c k e t   C o u n c i l   a n d   N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n   S i g n   M u l t i y e a r   P a r t n e r s h i p   t o   B o o s t   G l o b a l   F a n   E n g a g e m e n t   T h r o u g h   W e b 3 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     # I n t r o d u c i n g   t h e   N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ      M a r c h   o f   t h e   A m b a s s a d o r s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     H M a r i e k e   F l a m e n t   A p p o i n t e d   C E O   o f   N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n   T o   S p e a r h e a d   G r o w t h . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   ¾ @Æ  Bqÿÿÿÿÿÿ     / M e e t   t h e   2 0 2 3   N E A R C O N   I R L   H a c k a t h o n   W i n n e r s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ! M e t a B U I L D   2   H a c k a t h o n   W i n n e r s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ( M i n t i n g   M i n e c r a f t   B l u e p r i n t s   A s   N F T s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     : N E A R   a n d   D r o p t   t o   R e v o l u t i o n i z e   L o y a l t y   a n d   E n g a g e m e n t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     " N E A R   a n d   T h e   G r a p h   P a r t n e r s h i p . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ                                                                       
   / N E A R   C o m m u n i t y   i n   F o c u s :   N E A R   R e g i o n a l   H u b s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  Çÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ( N E A R   C o m m u n i t y   U p d a t e :   A p r i l   5 ,   2 0 1 9 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ) N E A R   C o m m u n i t y   U p d a t e :   M a r c h   2 2 ,   2 0 1 9 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ! @Æ  ßÿÿÿÿÿÿ     + N E A R   C o m m u n i t y   U p d a t e :   M a r c h   2 7 t h ,   2 0 2 0 . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     2 N E A R   D a y   a t   E T H D e n v e r :   E t h e r e u m   W i t h o u t   L i m i t s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     : N E A R   E c o s y s t e m   K i c k s   U p   a   S a n d s t o r m   a t   T O K E N 2 0 4 9   D u b a i . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     = N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n   C E O   T r a n s i t i o n :   A   N o t e   f r o m   E r i k   T r a u t m a n . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË  . @Æ  iÿÿÿÿÿÿ     ' N E A R   F o u n d a t i o n   T r a n s p a r e n c y   R e p o r t . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     1 N E A R   i n   M a r c h :   U n c h a i n   F u n d ,   S a i l G P ,   a n d   D A O s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     G N E A R   L a u n c h e s   N i g h t s h a d e   S h a r d i n g ,   P a v i n g   t h e   W a y   f o r   M a s s   A d o p t i o n . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     O N E A R   p a r t n e r s   w i t h   C e r a m i c   o n   c r o s s - c h a i n   i d e n t i t y   a n d   d y n a m i c   d a t a   s t o r a g e . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     , N E A R   P r o t o c o l   P a r t n e r s   w i t h   M a s k   N e t w o r k . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     2 N E A R   Q 4 :   H a c k a t h o n s ,   U p g r a d e s   a n d   I n t e g r a t i o n s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  Çÿÿÿÿÿÿ   @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     # E t h e r s c a n   w i l l   L a u n c h   o n   A         8   E    	     0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DSDB                                 `                                             @                                                @                                                @             ÿÿþËÿÿÿ @Æ -rÿÿÿÿÿÿ     G N E A R   L a u n c h e s   N i g h t s h a d e   S h a r d i n g ,   P a v i n g   t h e   W a y   f o r   M a s s   A d o p t i o n . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     O N E A R   p a r t n e r s   w i t h   C e r a m i c   o n   c r o s s - c h a i n   i d e n t i t y   a n d   d y n a m i c   d a t a   s t o r a g e . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþËÿÿþ @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     , N E A R   P r o t o c o l   P a r t n e r s   w i t h   M a s k   N e t w o r k . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  ·òÿÿÿÿÿÿ     2 N E A R   Q 4 :   H a c k a t h o n s ,   U p g r a d e s   a n d   I n t e g r a t i o n s . t x tdilcblob           ÿÿþË   @Æ  Çÿÿÿÿÿÿ   @Æ Hÿÿÿÿÿÿ     # E t h e r s c a n   w i l l   L a u n c h   o n   A
Doomslug vs PBFT, Tendermint, and Hotstuff
DEVELOPERS
February 5, 2020
In this blog post, we will see how Doomslug, our new block production technique, compares to PBFT, Tendermint, and Hotstuff. We will also dig relatively deep into how PBFT, Tendermint and Hotstuff work, cover view changes, pipelining, responsiveness and some other details.

On the last day of the previous decade, we published a paper called Doomslug in which we proposed a new way of producing blocks that allows us to achieve some sense of practical finality after just one round of communication, with a finality gadget providing full BFT finality after the second round.

What we refer to as practical finality, or doomslug finality is that a block produced by Doomslug is irreversible unless at least one participant is slashed. Doomslug also has a nice property that it continues producing and finalizing blocks for as long as just over half of all the participants are online and honest, not ⅔ as required by BFT consensus algorithms (though the finality gadget of course stalls if less than ⅔ of participants are online).

Now that the Doomslug implementation in NEAR is completed, it is a good time to discuss how it works, and how it compares to other approaches. Specifically, we will compare it to Tendermint and HotStuff.

If you have questions while you read, feedback is encouraged. Ask your questions and join the discussion here.

How Doomslug works
In short, Doomslug works by having a set of participants take turns to produce and broadcast blocks. Once a block at height h is received by other participants, they send endorsements on such a block to the participant assigned to the next height h+1. If after some predetermined time the participant assigned to h+1 hasn’t produced a block, the participants who sent an endorsement to her send another message to the participant assigned to h+2 indicating that they suggest skipping the block at h+1.

Once a participant has endorsements or skip-messages from more than half of other participants, they can produce their block.

With careful handling of message delays and exact slashing conditions, this rather simple technique can provide the property that we discussed above: if a block produced by Doomslug contains endorsements on the previous block from more than half of the block producers, the previous block is irreversible unless at least one of the block producers is slashed. Moreover, it is guaranteed that even if the network is slow, and messages are delayed, a block that contains endorsements from more than half the block producers will be created at some point, so the algorithm never stalls.

As mentioned above, there’s a finality gadget that operates together with Doomslug. Under normal circumstances once a block at height `h+1` is produced, and the block at height `h` has doomslug finality, the block at height `h-1` will have a full BFT finality. In other words, at least ⅓ of the total stake would need to be slashed to revert it. We will see how it compares to other consensus algorithms two sections below.

Both Doomslug and the finality gadget guarantees around blocks irreversibility do not make any assumptions about how slow or reliable the network is. In other words, both Doomslug and the finality gadget have safety under asynchronous network assumption. However, the guarantee that they cannot stall (a property called “liveness”) assumes a partially synchronous network. It is a rather common assumption, and all the consensus algorithms discussed in this post make this assumption in their liveness proofs. Having both guaranteed safety and liveness under asynchronous network is impossible, a limitation known as FLP impossibility.

A Short primer on PBFT, Tendermint, and Hotstuff
Before we dig into the comparison of Doomslug with Tendermint and Hotstuff, let’s do a quick review of how they work.

In a good case PBFT, Tendermint and Hotstuff all work in a very similar manner:

The consensus protocol happens over multiple views, optimistically in just one view. In each view there’s a particular leader who is assigned to carry out the consensus. The leader proposes a particular outcome. In the first view the choice of outcome is arbitrary. The leader sends the proposed outcome to all the remaining participants, and they send back their pre-vote on the outcome. The participants wait until there are pre-votes on the outcome from ⅔ of them, and then each participant sends a pre-commit on the outcome. Once there are pre-commit messages from ⅔ of participants, the consensus is reached.

The way the participants exchange messages differs between protocols. In Tendermint the participants use the gossip protocol, and each participant accumulates the pre-vote and pre-commit messages locally, while in Hotstuff the leader accumulates messages and sends them back.

The entire process can be made with just a linear amount of network overhead. Indeed, if the leader accumulates the pre-votes and pre-commits, then the initial broadcast of the proposed outcome, as well as other participants communicating back their pre-votes and pre-commits is already linear. The only quadratic overhead naively is sending accumulated pre-votes and accumulated pre-commits, but this can be done with linear overhead as well, if the accumulated messages are compressed using e.g. BLS signatures.

If for any reason the leader fails to carry out the consensus, it moves to the next view, in which the next leader will attempt again. The view change is where Hotstuff and Tendermint differ significantly from PBFT. In PBFT each participant has a timer that measures how much time has passed since the beginning of the view, and once the timer crosses a certain threshold, they send a view-change message to the next leader. The next leader needs to accumulate the view-change messages from ⅔ of the participants and send back a new-view message to them. This entire procedure requires at least cubic network overhead, and is also rather hard to implement correctly.

Tendermint and Hotstuff handle the view changes differently. Instead, there are timeouts in each phase (pre-vote and pre-commit), and whenever such a timeout is triggered, the participant sends a corresponding pre-vote or a pre-commit on nil, and moves to the next phase or view locally. Thus, the view-change is not an orchestrated process, and is rather implicit. Importantly, the mechanism for the view-change and for committing the block is essentially the same, which significantly simplifies the algorithm.

There are two major differences between Tendermint and Hotstuff. One is that Hotstuff is pipelined, meaning that a pre-commit of one view is a pre-vote for the next one, requiring almost twice as few phases as a non-pipelined version. There are proposals to make Tendermint pipelined, but the way it is implemented in Cosmos and presented in the paper are not pipelined. Second, and more frequently discussed, the difference is the fact that Hotstuff has so-called responsiveness, in other words, that an honest leader will always have the consensus reached in time bounded by the network delays, not timeouts. In Tendermint it is not the case, because in the pre-commit phase if a participant observes pre-commits on nil from ⅔ of the participants, they cannot move to the next view until the timeout expires, otherwise, an adversary with careful control of the network can make the algorithm switch between views indefinitely.

The responsiveness, while a neat feature, is somewhat misleading. Specifically, it only guarantees that the time it will take for the consensus to be reached will be bound by network delays if the leader is online and honest. If the leader is offline, the system will still wait the full timeout to move to the next view. In practice in Cosmos, which has been running a large instance of Tendermint for a long time presently, all the view-changes that ever occurred were due to the offline leader, and never due to the pre-commit on nil, thus the responsiveness of Hotstuff would have never mattered in Cosmos up to date.

I’m also not diving deep here into the fact that Hotstuff requires an extra round of communication to achieve responsiveness. In the first view, such an extra round can be omitted, and in the second view it is compensated with pipelining, thus the extra round rarely becomes an issue.

Doomslug vs Tendermint and Hotstuff
The optimistic case
Now let’s compare how Doomslug with a finality gadget compares to Tendermint and Hotstuff under various conditions. First, let’s consider the case in which no view-changes occur, and all the messages reach the leaders in time.

In the figure above, grey blocks are proposed blocks, blue blocks are blocks that have BFT finality, and yellow blocks are blocks that have doomslug finality.

Under normal circumstances Hotstuff and Tendermint behave exactly the same way: after a block is proposed, within two rounds of communication the block is final, and after two more rounds the block that immediately follows it is also final. Note that Hotstuff doesn’t pipeline across blocks, only across views, and thus producing two blocks still requires four rounds, not three.

Doomslug doesn’t improve on latency to full BFT finality, and thus since the moment the first block is produced, it still takes two rounds of communication until it has the full BFT finality. As discussed above, however, after the first round of communication the block already has a weaker than BFT sense of finality that we refer to as “doomslug finality”, in other words, it is irreversible unless at least one block producer is slashed.

Also note that by nature of finality gadgets, their throughput is the same as the underlying block production, and thus after three rounds of communication there are already two blocks that have full BFT finality, and after four rounds there are three such blocks. In other words, while it takes the same time for Doomslug with the finality gadget to reach full BFT finality on a single block, it finalizes twice as many blocks as Tendermint or Hotstuff per long period of time. While it doesn’t improve on latency, it improves the throughput by a factor of two.

The less optimistic case
Now let’s see what happens in a less optimistic case, in which either some participants are offline, or a view fails for another reason. In the figure above, we show the case in which two consecutive views have failed. In the case of Tendermint, each failed view adds two rounds of communication, and thus it will take six rounds of communication to finalize a block. In the case of Hotstuff, the pipelining kicks in, and the block will be finalized after just four rounds of communication. Due to finality gadgets having the same throughput as the underlying block production, Doomslug with the finality gadget enjoys the same pipelining, and will also finalize the block after four rounds of communication. It is the case, however, that after the first three rounds the block will already have “doomslug finality”, and after the fourth round together with the first block reaching BFT finality, a block built on top of it will already have doomslug finality as well.

Other considerations
Above we covered one dimension on which block production and consensus algorithms can be compared: the number of rounds to finality under different conditions. There are other considerations. For example, while all the consensus algorithms discussed in this post have liveness (in other words are guaranteed not to stall under certain practical conditions), their exact behavior in presence of network delays and interruptions differs. The amount of time it takes to recover after a period of long loss of connectivity can vary noticeably. Our simulated tests show that Doomslug recovers quickly after long periods of network inactivity (the simulation code can be found here), but generally, very little research was done on comparing the consensus protocols from this perspective.

Another dimension is implementation complexity. With an assumption that ⅓ of all the block producers, weighted by stake, can never become corrupted, a protocol built on Tendermint or Hotstuff doesn’t need to implement any logic to handle forks. Doomslug finalizes blocks slower than it produces them, and therefore forks are possible until the blocks are actually final. Correspondingly, the protocol needs to be able to handle such forks, which noticeably increases the complexity of the implementation. In case of NEAR, we switched to Doomslug from a flavor of longest chain protocol, and thus already had all the logic of handling forks and an intensive test coverage for it implemented, but for a new effort to build a protocol not having to deal with forks can result in a considerable reduction of implementation cost.

Outro
Check out our Whiteboard Series with NEAR, in which we talk to the founders and core developers of other protocols, such as Ethereum Serenity, Cosmos, Polkadot and many others, and dive deep into the details of their technology. All the video episodes are conveniently assembled into a playlist here.

NEAR Protocol is an infrastructure for open web and a sharded blockchain protocol. You can learn more about our technology in our sharding design paper, through deep-dive videos, or by exploring our Rust reference client implementation.

Follow @NEARprotocol on Twitter to get notified about new content we post, and get the latest updates on the development of the protocol.

If you want to get involved, please join the conversation here!

Thanks to Zaki Manian and Ethan Buchman from Tendermint for reviewing an early draft of this post and providing feedback!
Arpit Sharma Joins NEAR as Managing Director for India, Asia, and Middle East Expansion
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 1, 2023
The NEAR ecosystem is getting a huge boost in the eastern hemisphere today. NEAR Foundation is appointing Arpit Sharma as managing director for India, South East Asia, and the Middle East to help expand NEAR’s presence in those specific regions and beyond. Sharma brings regional expertise as well as leadership experience from the Polygon ecosystem.

“Arpit brings a wealth of experience and passion about Web3 to the table,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “With his impressive track record and deep understanding of this space, I am confident he will play a key role in shaping the future of NEAR.”

Sharma’s appointment marks a major milestone in expanding NEAR’s presence in some of the fastest-growing Web3 hotspots in the world. Having previously worked as the VP of Global Enterprises at Polygon, Sharma led enterprise adoption and business development in the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions. 

“I am thrilled to be in this new role as I see the immense opportunity in the region,” Sharma commented. “There is enormous potential to tap into strong grassroots communities as we continue to use the exciting opportunities presented by Web3 to connect, collaborate and change the world.”

Sharma and NEAR excited by regional opportunities
Favorable demographics and technical resources combined with a strong and diverse consumer base make India, South East Asia, and the Middle East primed for massive Web3 growth in the upcoming decades. As a VP at Polygon, Sharma was a key contributor to enterprise strategy and led the APAC business across enterprise, digital native businesses, and the public sector.

Sharma brings a wealth of regional and cross-industry experience along with extreme enthusiasm for the NEAR protocol, ecosystem, and technology. Sharma will champion Near’s developer-first focus and ease of use to drive onboarding in the APAC and Middle East regions.

“I’m incredibly impressed by the infinite scalability of NEAR’s platform,” Sharma said. “I believe it’s the best protocol in the ecosystem. It not only delivers on its technical promises but gains the support of the developer community. The potential presented in emerging markets is a win-win for everyone.”

As the new regional MD, Sharma will target business opportunities in five of the top ten countries on the 2022 Global Crypto Adoption Index. This includes Vietnam, the Philippines, India, Pakistan, and Thailand. The index has been dominated by emerging markets in recent years, and NEAR’s appointment of Sharma will help the ecosystem benefit from this trend.

India in particular boasts the world’s third-largest startup ecosystem and one of the top Web3 talent pools globally. This includes more than 450 active Web3 startups and four unicorns. Sharma will augment NEAR’s current and rapidly growing presence in APAC, with strong regional hubs in South Korea and Vietnam.

Sharma’s Web3 expertise extends to a wide array of industries, solutions, and use cases. This includes the metaverse, NFTs, supply chain tracking, and stablecoins. He’s led projects in these areas and his versatility will be well-positioned to create more opportunities and a richer ecosystem in the Middle East, South East Asia, and India.
Stake Wars Week 2 Retro
DEVELOPERS
November 18, 2019
On Nov 11, 4pm PST we had the second Stake Wars call with around 20 people.

Due to the issues uncovered last week, we took more caution this time and chose to start the genesis in house and invite external people to join afterwards. The network was started several minutes before the call, and during the call, Peter demonstrated how to join the network and stake to become a validator.

The network went down at 14560 blocks at around 9:00pm PST on Monday. All validating nodes crashed almost simultaneously. From the logs we observed that the nodes had dramatic increase in memory and cpu usage right before the crash. Due to the lack of proper logging, we were not able to determine the cause of the crash and therefore decided to restart the network on Tuesday with more careful debugging and logging setup.

The network crashed again on Tuesday night, around 11pm PST. From the valgrind output we saw that a function that broadcasts message to the network used an unreasonable amount of memory. After some investigation and sifting through logs of more than 1GB we found that there is a subtle bug in our network code that would only be triggered under a specific circumstance. We quickly deployed a quick fix that prevents such bug in normal situations but are still working on fully fixing the issue in the byzantine setting. We restarted the network again on Wednesday and it has been running without any downtime since then.

Released v0.4.6 with updates (fully implemented finality gadget) and fixes described below.

Issues:
The aforementioned network bug. More specifically, when we receive account announcement we check whether it already exists in the routing table by doing an exact match. However, since account announcement has epoch id, and because a newly joined peer would rebroadcast the account announcement they receive from peers, if a node in the network announce their account for the next epoch at the same time, it causes the announcement to overwrite each other. Each overwrite would lead to a broadcasting to the entire network and therefore causes exponential growth of network messages, which causes the entire network to crash. The issue is temporarily fixed in https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/pull/1688 and we are still working on fully fixing the issue.
We also noticed that, even though we fixed some major memory leaks last week, nodes were still leaking memory slowly. Through inspection we found that some caches in ShardsManager were not properly implemented and caused the leak. This issue is fixed in https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/pull/1706 (which is pending more testing).
There is also some issue with rpc that makes wallet sometimes nonfunctional. Validators complained that they have to try multiple times to register one account name. This issue is fixed in https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/pull/1699.
The experience this week shows that stability of our network is improving with each week. For next week, we will again open registration for stake wars to the public with a customized landing page that does input validation.

We also invite validator to start actually trying malicious or DDOS types of attacks to start testing non vanilla behaviors.
An Update from the NEAR Foundation
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 11, 2024
Dear NEAR Community,
The NEAR Foundation’s vision has always been to help the world create a truly Open Web, giving all people full control of their data, privacy, and power of governance. In 2023, the NEAR ecosystem saw remarkable progress towards this vision, with the NEAR Protocol now home to three of the top ten apps in Web3, a record number of daily users, and closer collaboration than ever with the Ethereum community.
With the NEAR Foundation Council (NFC), we’ve conducted a thorough review of the Foundation’s activities. During this process, we heard feedback that the Foundation has not always been as effective as it could be, sometimes moving too slowly and trying to do too many things at once. Following this review, we have decided to significantly consolidate the core Foundation team to focus on a narrower and higher-impact set of activities. Over time, Foundation’s footprint will continue to contract as the ecosystem further decentralizes and various nodes drive more activity in the network and across the ecosystem.
As part of this realignment, NEAR Foundation will reduce its team by approximately 40%, impacting 35 colleagues, primarily across the marketing, business development, and community teams. The NEAR Protocol Engineering Team at Pagoda will continue to operate as it has. The NEAR Foundation will provide support to affected colleagues during this time to help them find new opportunities in the NEAR ecosystem, the Web3 industry, and beyond. We thank each of our departing colleagues for your efforts and contributions towards our shared vision of the Open Web.

The NEAR Foundation treasury remains strong and well-managed, with over $285m fiat, 305m NEAR (worth over $1B), and $70m of investments and loans. The Foundation is well-placed to continue to support the ongoing growth, development, and further decentralization of the NEAR Protocol and ecosystem.
Thank you to everyone in the NEAR community for your ongoing efforts and support. We are excited to move forward with more focus, more efficiency, and more speed. We’ll share more updates soon about what comes next as we work to advance chain abstraction, user-owned AI, and mainstream adoption of the Open Web.
Keep building,
Embracing Decentralization: What’s Next for the NEAR Wallet
DEVELOPERS
July 12, 2023
When NEAR Mainnet launched in late 2020, it included a wallet built and hosted by Pagoda’s (then known as Near Inc.) core team on https://wallet.near.org to support NEAR’s unique account model. Nearly three years later, the NEAR wallet ecosystem is home to a myriad of high quality, open source wallets supported by NEAR’s community of active contributors. This significant milestone reflects NEAR’s ongoing commitment to empower users and foster decentralization. The evolution of NEAR wallets also showcases the substantial growth of the ecosystem, as NEAR now supports a diverse list of cross-chain wallets, as well as native wallets with innovative onboarding approaches such as FastAuth.

To celebrate these excellent contributions from across the NEAR community, and to reflect the priority of decentralization, over the next few months Pagoda will start migrating the domain https://wallet.near.org from being a browser wallet to being a wallet hub. In this way, https://wallet.near.org will become the reference place for all NEAR wallets, allowing users to discover and implement the right wallets for their specific needs.

If you currently use https://wallet.near.org as your main wallet, you have nothing to worry about. The Pagoda team has been working hard to build a Wallet Transfer Wizard to help you transfer your accounts to a new wallet easily and smoothly, while keeping your funds and assets safe. The Transfer Wizard will allow you to choose between Browser and Extension-based wallets, so you will still have the same friendly wallet experience you are accustomed to after the Wizard is finished.

For more details, visit the Migrating from NEAR Wallet page. 

Timeline for transitioning the main wallet domain 
The NEAR Wallet will remain a browser wallet until January 1st, 2024, during which time the wallet will encourage and help you to transfer your accounts to a new wallet. You can do this manually with your recovery phrase or use the Transfer Wizard to securely migrate your accounts to the wallet of your choice. 

Do not worry if you have not transferred your accounts by January 1st, 2024 —the Transfer Wizard will still be available after the wallet functionality sunsets. Rest assured that your assets will remain secure until you import them to a new wallet.

The Transfer Wizard will remain available on the new wallet landing page at wallet.near.org indefinitely. This repurposed page will act as an introduction to the various options for wallets in the NEAR ecosystem.

A new era for NEAR Wallets
This new step moves NEAR closer to achieving a truly decentralized ecosystem driven by its own community. Thanks to the wallet hub and the wallet selector (which enables the use of any compatible NEAR wallet in web applications), users will now be able to use any wallet they like. This will not only improve their experience on NEAR, but also the full spectrum of available Web3 experiences thanks to the BOS.


July in Review: 700 Projects Milestone, NEARCON Tickets, and Women in Web3
COMMUNITY
August 1, 2022
Hello, NEAR! There’s been lots of action in July, from new milestones and the NEARCON 2022 announcement to a major new initiative aimed at expanding diversity in Web3.

Let’s take a look at what’s been happening across the NEAR ecosystem, from communities to NEAR Foundation initiatives and beyond.

Ecosystem Panel: Helping the Climate with Web3
In July, the NEAR Town Hall got a makeover. The new town hall format, Ecosystem Panel, allows the NEAR community to focus on projects and initiatives popping up across the ecosystem. 

In the first Ecosystem Panel, “Helping the Climate with Web3”, learn how blockchain, crypto and the world of Web3 will enable social good and take climate, transparency, and finance to the next level. Moderated by David Morrison, the new Community Engagement Lead at NEAR Foundation, the panel features Frederic Fournier, CEO and Co-founder of Open Forest Protocol, Candice Ammori, Director of On Deck Climate Tech, and Emiliano Gutierrez, CEO and Co-founder of Raiz vertical farms. 


Twitter Spaces AMA on Social Good
On July 25th, NEAR hosted an AMA on “social good” on Twitter Spaces. The AMA featured moderator David Morrison (Community Engagement Lead at NEAR Foundation), Open Forest Protocol’s Frederic Fournie, On Deck Climate Tech’s Candice Ammori, and Raiz Farm’s Emiliano Gutierrez.

Check out the Twitter Spaces AMA here. 

Foundation News
This month, NEAR Foundation announced NEARCON Beta, the second edition of its flagship conference. NEARCON is returning to the beautiful coastal city of Lisbon, Portugal, and the foundation has the ambitious goal of selling more than 3,000 tickets. Spread the word!

The Foundation also launched Women in Web3 Changemakers, an an exciting new initiative that will celebrate the pivotal role women are playing in the Web3 story. We’ve teamed up with Forkast, one of the fastest growing media companies in the Web3 space. Nominations are now open. So, if you know of women who are making a difference in this space, nominate them! 

NEAR Foundation has also been publishing “NEAR & Social Good”, its July content series. The series explores a number of projects that are building for social good on the NEAR ecosystem. Read part one, part two, part three, and part four. 

Ecosystem News
The NEAR ecosystem is popping. It just hit a huge milestone of 700 projects now building on NEAR. This demonstrates incredible growth from last year when the number was a fraction of the new total. 

At EthCC, NEAR Protocol Co-founder Illia Polosukhin gave a talk on governance. As Illia noted, decentralized governance is one of NEAR’s core pillars. To get it working smoothly at the protocol and individual DAO level, Illia recommends the community begin a major effort to experiment with and iterate governance.  

NEAR now offers more institutional custody options through its partnership with BitGo. This is a huge step for the ecosystem, as institutional investors now have more ways to  support NEAR’s continued growth. 

In other ecosystem news, Sweatcoin recently broke 11m wallets created. In Stake Wars II: A New Validator, NEAR introduced the Chunk-Only Producer—the next step in network decentralization.  

Elsewhere, Globe Exchange announced a NEAR listing, and Pocket Network now supports NEAR. By adding RPC support for NEAR, the ecosystem is now able to serve the needs of developers who can now access reliable and highly decentralized blockchain data on demand. 

Wallet provider Nightly received a NEAR grant, joining a growing list of wallets in the NEAR ecosystem. Also, CornerstoneDAO announced an airdrop for LiNEAR users, while Aurora launched a community grants program.

Oh, and NEAR Wallet issues are now fixed. Pagoda successfully worked through a series of issues with currency prices on the main NEAR Wallet. Get up to speed with the complete update here. 

NEAR in the press
Open Forest Protocol, which is bringing the forestration industry into the Web3 era, is now on NEAR mainnet. OFP’s mainnet launch made the press in Fintech & Finance News. 

Forkast, a Web3 news publication, interviewed NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament on the gender gap in Web3. Flament said, amongst other things, that despite progress on this front, there is more work to be done. Read the full interview with Marieke here.

ICYMI: Man on the Streets interviews 
At Consensus 2022, NEAR Foundation’s Community Engagement Lead, David Morrison, caught up with several ecosystem figures to talk about the latest happenings on NEAR. David spoke with NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin, NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament, NEAR Foundation CMO Jack Collier, and Mya Shofany, the Foundation’s Regulatory Specialist, amongst others. Watch short “Man on the Street” interviews of them talking about the NEAR’s new Javascript SDK implementation, ecosystem values like openness and inclusivity, and the regulatory space.


What excites @mariekeflament, NEAR Foundation CEO, the most about Web3?

Catch up with Marieke at #Consensus2022 where she shares her thoughts on what true ownership really means and how Web3 can solve the world's biggest challenges.

Watch now 👇 pic.twitter.com/EV006K3AXB

— NEAR Protocol | NEARCON.org | Lisbon | Sept 11-14 (@NEARProtocol) July 18, 2022
Etherscan will Launch on Aurora
COMMUNITY
September 1, 2021
Aurora, an Ethereum scaling solution that allows projects built on Ethereum to utilise the cutting-edge technology of NEAR has teamed up with Etherscan, the leading block explorer for Ethereum to allow developers to use the same familiar tool. 

While Aurora utilises NEAR as its foundation, it has always envisioned a future in which projects can move seamlessly between blockchains to suit their needs. The partnership with Etherscan is a significant step in that direction. 

“Etherscan provides the familiar interface of the explorer,” says Alex Shevchenko, the CEO of Aurora Labs. “Users and devs won’t need to educate themselves on how to use the Aurora block explorer, instead they would get the familiar tool.”

While Etherscan is most commonly known as a block explorer for Ethereum, it’s capable of so much more: from statistics, and token transfers and listing; to smart contract source code verification and ability to issue read and write calls directly from the UI. Making those tools available to a greater number of devs is key to Aurora’s mission. 

“Aurora is always focused on making the experience of devs and users as seamless as possible,” says Shevchenko. 

The explosive growth of DeFi and NFTs frequently causes surges in Ethereum gas prices––a problem that economically limits the participation of many users, and prevents dApp developers from scaling their businesses to their full potential. Helping developers to grow their business is a mission Etherscan shares with Aurora.

“We are happy to utilize our experience in building block explorer solutions into supporting Aurora, and extend our own vision of providing equitable access to blockchain data”, says Matthew Tan, Founder & CEO of Etherscan.

While today marks the start of the integration process, the product will be available later in the year. Stay tuned for updates on the release and other upcoming ones from the Aurora team.

About NEAR

NEAR Protocol is a high-performance blockchain platform for developing Open Web applications. Easy to build on and easy to use, NEAR will bridge the users of today’s internet to the blockchain-based web of the future.

NEAR Protocol is built by a world-class team of engineers and entrepreneurs, including world champions of ACM-ICPC, Google Code Jam, and TopCoder Open. NEAR is backed by top VCs such as A16Z, Pantera Capital, Electric Capital, Dragonfly Capital, Coinbase Ventures, Blockchain.com, and Baidu Ventures.

Join NEAR’s community:

Telegram: https://t.me/cryptonear
Discord: https://discord.com/invite/UY9Xf2k
Twitter: @NEAR_Blockchain & @NEARProtocol

About Aurora

Aurora is an EVM built on the NEAR Protocol, delivering a turn-key solution for developers to operate their apps on an Ethereum-compatible, high-throughput, scalable and future-safe platform, with low transaction costs for their users.
Škoda Ventures into NFTs with NEAR to Create the Škodaverse India
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 20, 2023
Škoda India, in collaboration with NEAR Protocol, announces its foray into the world of NFTs and blockchain technology with Škodaverse India. This new platform forms a part of the global Škodaverse initiative and will bringa fresh wave of digital innovation to Škoda automobile fans in India.

Škoda, one of Europe’s biggest car manufacturers headquartered in the Czech Republic, is quickly becoming one of the most forward-thinking industry brands in Web3 and the metaverse. Late last year, the company announced its global Škodaverse initiative, integrating virtual test drives and NFTs into an immersive environment.

And now the Škodaverse is coming to the Indian market, powered by the NEAR Protocol, that will enable Škoda fans to buy, trade, and engage with NFTs in Web3. It’s a crucial step in the brand’s journey towards building a tight-knit community of Škoda loyalists, offering a space for fans to connect, co-create, and establish long-term relationships with the brand.

Steering Škoda fans towards NFTs with NEAR
Mr. Christian Cahn von Seelen – Executive Director of Sales, Marketing, and Digital, Škoda at Auto Volkswagen India – expressed excitement at the unveiling of the Škodaverse India NFT platform. He envisions it as a dynamic hub for connection and creativity, exemplifying Škoda’s commitment to its customers and fans in India. The Škodaverse India will offer unique and immersive experiences to a rapidly growing market.

“Škodaverse India signifies the brand’s leap into uncharted digital territory,” said von Seelen. It’s not just about creating extraordinary digital assets, it’s about forging deep connections with a community that shares an unwavering passion for the brand and its initiatives in India. It also showcases our commitment to sustainability and innovation, through leveraging carbon-neutral blockchain technology that enables secure, transparent, and decentralized transactions.”

Škodaverse India is designing its metaverse platform to be exciting and engaging for Škoda enthusiasts of all demographics, whether they’re familiar with blockchain technology or not. Whether it’s an image, video, sound, or ticket, each NFT collection released on the Škodaverse India platform will be curated to create memorable driving experiences

The first NFT collection, honoring sustainability, will be created on NEAR Protocol. As a South Pole-certified, carbon-neutral blockchain, NEAR’s eco-first philosophy aligns seamlessly with Škoda India’s sustainability efforts.

Driving Škoda India’s Web3 Strategy into the future
As part of the brand’s intensified Web3 strategy, Škoda Auto India is collaborating with Antier, a leading blockchain consulting firm, to foster the creation and minting of innovative NFTs. Each NFT collection released on the Škodaverse India platform will be thoughtfully curated to represent memorable driving experiences. 

These unique collectibles will unlock exclusive experiences, strengthening the bond between Škodaverse and its community of users. The Škodaverse India platform also ensures users stay updated with the latest in the creation and sale of NFTs. Users can sign in, create, and maintain their profiles, and monitor for updates via Škodaverse India’s Discord, Telegram, and Twitter.

With the launch of Škodaverse India, Škoda Auto India embraces blockchain technology, signaling a significant move towards Web3 applications. Powered by NEAR Protocol, Škodaverse India will offer engaging, community-building experiences, further solidifying Škoda’s position as a forward-thinking automobile brand in Web3 and the metaverse.


Post Mortem: NEAR Discord Security Incident
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 22, 2023
This is a post mortem report regarding the recent security incident that occurred on the NEAR Discord server.  The purpose of this report is to provide analysis of the incident, identify the root cause, outline the impact, and propose actions to potentially limit similar incidents in the future.

Summary: On Wednesday, May 17th, the NEAR Discord server experienced a security incident.  This resulted in unauthorized access to a singular moderator account. The incident occurred due to a successful spear-phishing attempt on one of our server’s moderators. The attacker used their access to promote a fraudulent airdrop campaign, with the intent to deceive users and drain their wallets. 

Root Cause Analysis: The investigation revealed the following root causes:

Successful spear-phishing: One of the NEAR Discord moderators was targeted by a phishing campaign, leading to the theft of their Discord credentials. 
Lack of Two-Factor Authentication (2FA): The absence of 2FA for user accounts provided an opportunity for attackers to gain unauthorized access. 
Impact: The security incident had the following impacts:

Unauthorized Access: The attacker gained unauthorized access to our Discord server. 
Removal of Moderators: The attacker used their access to ban existing moderators that tried to intervene. 
Content Deletion: Unauthorized deletion of two Discord channels.
Disruption of Services: During the incident investigation and subsequent remediation, there was a temporary disruption in server availability and functionality. Invite links were invalidated during the process and are being rebuilt. 
Actions Taken: In response to the security incident, we have taken the following actions:

Incident Response and Investigation: Immediately upon detection, our security team initiated an incident response plan. They conducted a thorough investigation to determine the extent of the incidents and identify the source of the entry point.
Timeline of events: 
At 7:47 PM UTC, a malicious webhook was installed by a compromised Discord Moderator account.
At 10:47 PM UTC, the attacker — using the compromised moderator account — began posting in Discord. From there, other Discord members attempting to mitigate the attack were subsequently banned.
The attacker used their access to promote a fraudulent airdrop campaign, with the intent to deceive users and drain their wallets.
10:57 PM UTC, The Pagoda Security team was notified. 
Triage began and we identified the problem account and began resetting permission immediately. 
11:13 PM UTC, all attackers had been removed and all threats neutralized. 
User Notification and Password Reset: Affected users have been notified about the incident, and a mandatory password reset has been implemented to ensure the security of their accounts. 
Required 2FA for Moderators: Moderators are now required to use 2FA in the NEAR Discord. 
Preventive Measures: To prevent similar incidents, the following actions will be taken: measures:

Regular Security Audits: Implement regular security audits of our Discord server to identify and address vulnerabilities promptly.
Ongoing Monitoring and Incident Response Improvement: Enhance our monitoring capabilities to detect any suspicious activities and continually improve our incident response procedures.
Security Education and Awareness: Continue to educate our team on the importance of strong passwords, multi-factor authentication, and general security best practices. 
Conclusion: The security incident on the NEAR Discord server served as a crucial reminder of the significance of having robust security measures in place. Prompt action to minimize the impact was taken and the team have since implemented preventive measures to avoid similar incidents moving forward.  Ensuring the security and privacy of our users and their data continues to be our utmost priority. 
NEAR and The Graph Partnership
COMMUNITY
February 18, 2021
NEAR and The Graph partner to bring Indexing and Querying to the NEAR blockchain 
Developers building applications on NEAR will be able to build subgraphs (open APIs), and index blockchain data more efficiently.

The Graph is excited to announce an official integration plan with NEAR, expanding the decentralized indexing network of NEAR’s infrastructure. The Graph currently supports Ethereum and IPFS. This partnership will support developers to build powerful applications on NEAR using The Graph, and enable developers from all supported ecosystems to explore querying of subgraphs (open APIs) for data across different blockchains. Subgraphs exist for applications like Uniswap, Synthetix, AAVE, Gnosis, Balancer, Foundation, and many others. 

The Graph is the indexing and query layer of the decentralized web. Indexing is a way of structuring and categorizing data so it can be easily searched for and queried by users. Developers build and publish open APIs, called subgraphs, that applications can query using GraphQL. The Graph solves the problem of centralized data indexing by building a decentralized protocol for indexing blockchain data, users no longer have to trust teams to operate servers and developers can deploy to reliable public infrastructure they don’t have to manage. 

Growing the Open Web with The Graph
NEAR is a decentralized application platform that is secure enough to manage high value assets like money or identity and performant enough to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of open technologies in their hands. It is built atop a public proof-of-stake blockchain, which combines the scalability that is needed to drive the Open Web with the common-sense usability that is needed to make it successful.

“NEAR is excited to work with The Graph ecosystem. The Graph Protocol provides essential infrastructure for developers to build and query required representations of blockchain data. Tools like The Graph empower NEAR developers to build decentralized applications faster, which will attract more builders and users to the Open Web,”  said Illia Polosukhin, NEAR Co-Founder. 

Eva Beylin, Director of The Graph Foundation added, “We’re excited about NEAR being one of the first multi-blockchain expansions for The Graph, enabling developers to build more interoperable dapps within the Web3 ecosystem.”

The partnership will empower NEAR’s ecosystem builders to build with a truly decentralized indexing layer and allow them to collaborate with The Graph’s network of developers. Furthermore, it provides a solution to composability issues in blockchain by creating decentralized APIs that serve data from a number of different chains.

The Graph aims to grow overall Web3 development and help developers build interoperable applications. The Integration with NEAR will accelerate both projects’ goal of ‘Opening the Web’. 

About The Graph 
The Graph is a protocol and decentralized network for querying and indexing blockchain data. At The Graph, our mission is to make serverless applications possible and to make building on Web3 accessible to anyone. Before NEAR, The Graph was integrated with many applications on Ethereum and IPFS that use subgraphs for retrieving data. To date, over 8,000 subgraphs have been deployed by over 10,000 active developers for applications, such as Uniswap, Synthetix, Aragon, Gnosis, Balancer, Livepeer, DAOstack, AAVE, Decentraland, and many others.

The Graph Foundation invites developers, researchers and community members alike to apply to The Graph Grants Program. Anyone contributing to supported blockchains can apply for a grant for Protocol Infrastructure, Tooling, Decentralized Applications or Community Building. The Foundation is aiming to distribute up to ~25M GRT in grants in The Graph ecosystem in 2021.The Graph would also love to welcome you to be Indexers, Curators and/or Delegators on The Graph’s mainnet. Join The Graph community by introducing yourself in The Graph Discord for technical discussions, join The Graph’s Telegram chat, or follow The Graph on Twitter! The Graph’s developers and members of the community are always eager to chat with you, and The Graph ecosystem has a growing community of developers who support each other.

About NEAR
NEAR exists to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity with the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands. NEAR’s unique account model allows developers to build secure apps that consumers can actually use similarly to today’s web apps, something which requires multiple second-layer add-ons on other blockchains.

Technically speaking, NEAR Protocol is a brand new, public, proof-of-stake blockchain which is built using a novel consensus approach called Doomslug. NEAR Protocol uses a new sharding mechanism called Nightshade which splits the network into multiple pieces so that the computation is done in parallel. Parallelism radically increases throughput and allows the network to scale up as the number of nodes on it increases. With NEAR, there isn’t a theoretical limit on the network’s capacity.

NEAR invites you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people who are excited for the future of the Open Web. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter or following us on our Twitter for the latest news on NEAR.
Evolving NEAR Foundation’s Funding Strategy
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 21, 2022
NEAR Foundation is publishing a series of blogs on the state of funding, including updates from the Grants Team and an upcoming Transparency Report for Q3. This is part of our continued commitment to transparency, as well as more frequent and open communication with the NEAR community. 

NEAR Foundation’s role is to support the NEAR ecosystem and community. This means that the Foundation can deploy capital to help promote growth, alongside its efforts to grow awareness of NEAR and onboard a billion users to Web3. 

Among Layer 1 protocols, NEAR is in an excellent position to thrive despite the very difficult market conditions. Our 5+ years of runway will help the NEAR ecosystem weather the bear market, which is likely to last for some time. The Treasury Team’s careful spending and responsible Treasury management has equipped the ecosystem to emerge from this crypto winter with NEAR as the protocol of choice for people and projects building on Web3. 

While the market has created a new reality for the entire Web3 ecosystem, NEAR sees this as a moment of great opportunity and a time to stick to our convictions. We’ve outlined the Foundation’s new strategy around facilitating Web2.5 and making NEAR the de facto bridge from Web2 to Web3. 

Staying true to NEAR’s decentralized vision, the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) was recently launched and led by the Governance Working Group (GWG). We’ve also delegated some decision-making to the community through grassroots DAOs: the DeveloperDAO, MarketingDAO, and CreativesDAO. 

NEAR Foundation has provided capital to many projects over the last two-plus years, with clear milestones and goals designed to maximize potential value added to the ecosystem. Grants have been a major part of that capital allocation strategy since the program was first announced in 2021. Although the Foundation has a substantial amount of runway to support the ecosystem for several years to come, we need to ensure that we are stewarding NEAR’s Treasury as responsibly and sustainably as possible.

With these long-term views in mind, NEAR Foundation is looking critically at all of its capital allocation in the last few years in order to determine what has had the most impact and where we should consider revising our approach. We will also be heavily scrutinizing upcoming capital deployments. The Foundation must focus on supporting the highest quality projects with the most potential and alignment with our vision for NEAR.

What does this mean for the community? To make NEAR the leading Web2.5 bridge, NEAR Foundation will back those projects and initiatives that help best grow and support the ecosystem for years to come. This also means that some tough decisions are coming about where not to deploy funding. 

However, in the areas where funding or granting is pared back, the Foundation will do its absolute best to support those affected by upcoming funding decisions. We will make our best efforts to help these community members find new homes with other ecosystem projects. 

NEAR Foundation will also ensure that we are as transparent as possible about the new Funding strategy as it rolls out. The Foundation will communicate as often and as much as possible, and encourage the community to continue giving feedback so we can iterate more quickly as we build the NEAR Ecosystem together.

NEAR Foundation has already made significant steps to make NEAR’s funding more transparent. Through the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC), we are empowering the community to evolve governance and coordinate together through the ecosystem DAOs. (Read more and get involved at the NDC gov.nearpages.wpengine.com page.) In September, NEAR formed a working group to set standards for this on-chain style of self-governance. The Foundation has been calling this the “bottom-up” approach to supporting the community, encouraging grassroots coordination and decentralized decision-making that works in parallel with the Foundation’s more “top-down” stewardship and funding strategy.  

The Foundation also started publishing a regular Transparency Report in the spirit of accountability to the ecosystem. The first Transparency report, which came out just before NEARCON, was an important start—but we want to make it even better for the community. The next report will be coming out in a couple of weeks and will include more granularity where possible. You can also check out a recent update from the NEAR Grants team titled “Funding Beyond Grants”. 

It’s also important for the community to understand that while transparency and open communication are an essential part of NEAR Foundation’s commitment to all of you, we cannot be entirely transparent about every funding decision or commercial agreement we make. This is primarily due to legal restrictions that can be imposed on NEAR Foundation in its dealings with third parties. The Foundation will share as much as possible  about the exciting collaborations being made in the months ahead.

NEAR Foundation highly encourages people to get involved with the NEAR community. By becoming more participatory, community members can take ownership in the new bottom-up approach to decision making we are helping foster across the ecosystem.

NEAR Foundation is keeping an eye on the long term for the entire NEAR ecosystem. By being fiscally responsible and deploying capital in a sustainable way, the Foundation can ensure that NEAR emerges from this bear market stronger than ever, and well positioned to help builders keep building the future of Web3.
Shred Spots and NEAR Foundation: Kick-Flipping Into the Future of Social NFTs
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 12, 2023
Action sports such as skateboarding and snowboarding are gaining momentum, especially among Gen Z, and are quickly outpacing traditional sports. Today, Gen Z is one of the biggest growth populations in skateboarding, highlighting the relevance of action sports and their surrounding community to the TikTok generation.

This is where NEAR Foundation’s newest partner, Shred Spots, steps in. Shred Spots is a unique social platform specifically designed for active participants and community members in the street sports realm. Despite impressive growth, a dedicated, verticalized social platform that caters to these Gen Z skaters has been noticeably absent – until now. 

In a convergence of skating and the open web, Shred Spots has partnered with NEAR Foundation to create a unique, interactive experience for street sports enthusiasts. This fusion will empower skaters to create, compete, and immortalize their achievements via innovative NFT technology within the action sports metaverse.

Shred Spots: grinding in popularity among the open web generation
Shred Spots has established itself as a go-to app for street skaters and has formed partnerships with significant street sports brands like Red Bull, GoPro, and XGames. It’s a community-driven digital platform that allows its users to track their achievements, compete with their peers, and express themselves creatively.

A unique feature of Shred Spots is its live map, updated by the community, where users can find and add sports locations. They can search based on the type of obstacle, difficulty level, or even the likelihood of getting “busted.” These attributes have led Wired to proclaim Shred Spots as “the only app street skaters will ever need.”

In a recent interview, Shred Spots founder, Lev Filimonov, also emphasized the app’s unique ability to combine skaters’ experience with AR and NFTs, fostering a dynamic interaction with the history and culture of skate spots worldwide while allowing users to monetize their art and achievements.

Shred Spots’ popularity is a testament to its success. With its growth primarily driven by word-of-mouth within the street sports community, it has rapidly emerged as an essential tool for skaters worldwide. This organic growth underscores the platform’s ability to resonate with its audience and fulfill a clear need with Web3 and NEAR.

Making every trick memorable with Shred Spots x NEAR
The partnership between NEAR and Shred Spots brings an innovative twist to the realm of action sports, introducing the transformative potential of Web3 technologies to this vibrant community. Shred Spots plan to leverage NEAR’s blockchain to generate unique, collectible NFTs from skating highlights, enriching the overall user experience.

In this exciting new chapter, every trick recorded and uploaded onto Shred Spots could be minted into an NFT within the street art metaverse. This integration not only adds a rewarding layer to the platform but also deepens the connection between skaters and the fascinating world of blockchain.

Growth within the Shred Spots community has been largely organic, a testament to its widespread acceptance within the skating community. This partnership with NEAR amplifies the platform’s user experience through the integration of NFT technology, extending the reach of Web3 into the action sports world.

The alignment of Shred Spots and NEAR’s vision aids in democratizing access to Web3 technologies, introducing an entirely new user base to the possibilities of blockchain. This marks a pivotal step in broadening the horizons of the street sports community, linking their passions with the power of Web3 and digital ownership.

The collaboration between NEAR and Shred Spots epitomizes how the open web can enrich user experiences in growing niche communities like skateboarding and action sports. It also illustrates the future confluence of the open web, sports, and real-world achievements. And it’s bringing the blockchain to a whole new generation of action sports enthusiasts.
NFTs on NEAR: Why NFT?
COMMUNITY
May 23, 2022
Non-fungible tokens, or NFTs, have been around for years but really blew up in 2020. Inspired by Beeple’s $69 million NFT artwork auction, other major artists and musicians began minting artworks last year, spurring a cultural frenzy that has carried over into 2022. Everyone from Eminem and Mozart to the National Football League and Coca-Cola have found a special place on the blockchain through NFTs. 

Despite their rapid ascent, it looks like NFTs are here to stay. And as unique digital assets that can represent just about anything, like artwork, audio or video content, it’s easy to see why. 

But why did they become so popular? What makes the underlying tech so powerful to those wielding it? And what role is NEAR playing in all of this? 

More than just a fad
NFTs first made headlines because of the seemingly obscene amounts of money being spent on them. Who would spend $1.3 million on a single grey pixel, some asked? And what is the point of snapping up a digital image when you could just screenshot it? It seemed to many just a passing craze for people with a lot of money. 

But, fast forward to 2022: NFTs have proven they are more than just a fad, or just an investment for the rich. 

The unstoppable rise of NFTs has much to do with how they make us reimagine ownership. Now, an NFT’s cryptographic stamp is recorded on the blockchain, proving ownership of things like art, music, and even documentation, like a driving license or medical documents. 

“They are going to be everywhere and have lots of uses,” says Monish, community builder at The Auction, a secondary sale NFT marketplace built on NEAR. “No one can resist. Everyone will have an NFT in their wallet—this includes anything from an RC book to a driving license. They are not just an investment.”

Monish captures something essential about NFTs. They were just an investment, and largely limited to the art world. But now developers are capitalizing on their other use cases to transform industries. Here’s how. 

What else can NFTs do? 
An NFT is essentially a digital container which holds intellectual property (IP). These containers are minted, bought, and sold. And since the blockchain stores that IP, it guarantees the owner is the only owner with a place in an unmodifiable public ledger.

This is useful if one wants to be the rightful owner of a piece of art, and good for the artist who might want to know who bought their work. But, there are plenty of other things NFTs can do—especially NFTs that run on NEAR’s blockchain. 

Vandal, a music producer and founder of DAOrecords, a record label built on NEAR, talks of how music NFTs will get a better deal for artists and those involved in music production. 

Think about it like this: if a CD is sold, or a song is streamed, it is up to the record label or streaming service to determine how and when to pay the royalty splits. Artists can wait a long time for their cut of the royalty. But if a musician releases a record in the form of an NFT, the technology automatically and immediately pays the artist and other co-creators a set amount. NEAR Protocol’s NFT standard automatically bakes royalty splits into the smart contract, streamlining the payout process.

“NEAR’s NFT technology is so powerful because it has the ability for people to do multiple splits,” says Vandal. “You can set various wallets at different percentages of an NFT and automate those splits. That’s a really good feature. And I think the reason for that feature is the low transaction cost and network speed.”

While still novel, music NFTs are already common. From major acts like Kings of Leon—the first band in the world to sell an NFT album—to smaller independent artists, like UK-based Origin Beats, many musicians have been experimenting with NFTs in the last year. 

“My personal biggest thing is the creative flexibility and control,” Vandal says. “That’s what excited me the most and hooked me immediately 11 months ago. And self-releasing music and cutting out the middleman is huge.”

NFTs on NEAR now even have the power to give rewards to their creators or owners.  Users can stake assets on a platform or protocol, earning interest for those involved. 

Paras, an NFT marketplace launched on NEAR in 2021, recently introduced the staking of its native utility coin $PARAS. As Co-founder Rahmat “Riqi” Albariq noted, $PARAS’s use cases include an exclusive pass to future deals and events, as well as a foundational piece of the Paras DAO governance. 

Shifting the cultural paradigm with NFTs
NFTs are changing the game for those previously not involved in the crypto or tech worlds. Naksh, an NFT marketplace used by artists in India, is just one example. Built on NEAR, Naksh puts traditional art on the blockchain.  

Founded by art graduates Sri Lakshmi and Nivedita Vivek, the platform is working to help resurrect the traditional art market in India. The two, who had no crypto background, say they want a future where art exchanges help both the buyer and the artist. Lakshmi says they chose NEAR’s blockchain for their platform because it is carbon neutral.  

Now the two are focusing all their energy on NFTs and getting artists the best deals for their work. Sri adds that although Naksh onboarded some artists at first, more are onboarding as the project gets more publicity and funding. 

“As with any new tech that comes up, everyone is skeptical and not 100% sure it will work,” she says. “A lot of these artists come from rural parts of India and are not very educated, so to get them to understand an up and coming technology and digital assets is a task. And even though we have confidence, they are still skeptical about the scalability of this.”

“A lot of artists made their livelihood through physical artforms so it can be hard to convince them,” she adds. “But the ones who are now on board swear by it.” 

A user-friendly NFT experience
Web3 developers and investors are confident that NFT technology will continue to transform industries—and not just the art world. Many think NFTS will eventually create entirely new economies. Play-to-earn gamers in the Philippines, for instance, already participate in an NFT economy. And in the near future, it’s likely that NFTs will be currencies in the metaverse.

The challenge will be convincing crypto-skeptics of their utility. And Web3 apps will require a simple user experience that people have come to expect in Web2. 
MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon Winners
COMMUNITY
March 31, 2022
For the last three months, NEAR developers and entrepreneurs from across the globe have been hard at work on the MetaBUILD 2 hackathon. For the NEAR community,  this hybrid virtual-physical event is a hotbed of Web3 ideas, creativity, and innovation. 

Developing on NEAR’s simple, scalable, and secure blockchain, these projects are the integral building blocks laying the foundation for a better future. A future where millions of new users and developers work together to create and share completely new journeys in Web3. 

Just as the NEAR community has grown by leaps and bounds, so too has MetaBUILD.  Similar to the first hackathon, MetaBUILD 2 has a total of $1 million in prizes to give away. But this time nearly 4,000 participants joined the hackathon, submitting over 356 projects—of which, 186 were eligible—across NFTs, DeFI, Gaming, DAOs, infrastructure apps and tools, and EVM apps. 

For the NEAR MetaBUILD 2 hackathon, we had Welcome and Natives tracks, as well as 35 Sponsor Challenges.

If you’d like to get in touch with any of our winners, join our Discord channel. 

Grand Prize Winners
1st Place – Voog 
A blockchain app-builder, Voog is a super simple UI-based smart contract builder, featuring one-click deployment to NEAR and an auto-generated UI to implement contracts.

Learn more about Voog. 

2nd Place – MetaAds
A brand new decentralized online-2-offline (O2O) protocol, MetaAds aggregates Metaverse ads with Indoor and Outdoor ads in the real world.

Learn more about MetaAds.

3rd Place – NEAR Playground 
A browser-based editor, NEAR Playground empowers developers to write, compile, test, and call NEAR Rust and AssemblyScript smart contracts in the browser.

Learn more about NEAR Playground. 

Welcome Track – Best Technology Winners
The Welcome Track was for those developers who already had an app and wanted to integrate NEAR blockchain into it. The Welcome Track was also for non-blockchain developers who may have had an idea for a NEAR app but wanted to get familiar with the Web3 technology. Those hackers who wanted to be eligible for one more of the 35 sponsor prizes were encouraged to bake a challenge solution into their project. 

Below are the Welcome Track’s “Best Technology” winners. 

Rainbow Bridge Explorer
An API for exploring bridge transactions between NEAR, Aurora, and Ethereum, the Rainbow Bridge Explorer allows users to explore their bridging activities and discover trends on the Rainbow Bridge.

Learn more about Rainbow Bridge Explorer. 

MineLand
A Play-to-Earn NFT collectible game, MineLand allows players to mint mines and collect resources with advanced game logic.

Learn more about MineLand. 

NEAR Playground 
A browser-based editor, NEAR Playground empowers developers to write, compile, test, and call NEAR Rust and AssemblyScript smart contracts in the browser.

Learn more about NEAR Playground. 

Natives Track – Best Technology Winners
The Natives Track was designed for developers already familiar with NEAR, Aurora, or Octopus blockchain, or who wanted to build an ecosystembuild ecosystem and tooling apps (using blockchain data, not the technology). As with the Welcome Track, Native Track participants were eligible for one more of the 35 sponsor prizes if they tackled at least one of the challenges in their project. 

Below are the Natives Track’s “Best Technology” winners. 

Shizo
A metaverse map based on a map of the physical world, Shizo is the place where you can buy and sell digital roads and lands, as well as change their appearance.

Learn more about Shizo. 

MetaAds
A brand new decentralized online-2-offline (O2O) protocol, MetaAds aggregates Metaverse ads with Indoor and Outdoor ads in the real world.

Learn more about MetaAds.

Voog 
A blockchain app-builder, Voog is a super simple UI-based smart contract builder, featuring one-click deployment to NEAR and an auto-generated UI to implement contracts.

Learn more about Voog. 

Brave CryptoDino Challenge Winners
Jeffrey The Dinosaur’s Dinotastic Blockchain Adventure 
First place winner of the Brave CryptoDino challenge, Jeffrey the Dinosaur’s Dinotastic Blockchain Adventure allows users to log in with NEAR and equip skin NFTs from their wallets. The game mechanics are largely the same as the original, although this one’s cacti are a little bit taller. 

Learn more about Jeffrey The Dinosaur’s Dinotastic Blockchain Adventure. 

OpenSkin
Second place winner of the Brave CryptoDino challenge, OpenSkin allows players to earn “dino points” as they play, which are then added to the user’s NEAR wallet. The team also created a marketplace called OpenSkin, where artists can upload their game skins as jpegs, which are then converted into tokens that users can collect. 

Learn more about OpenSkin. 

MetaBUILD 2 Co-Organizer Track Winners
Sponsors NEAR Foundation, Aurora, Brave, and Octopus Network co-organized MetaBUILD 2. Here are the hackathon winners for this co-organizer track. 

“Calling All Liberal Artists” – Bit Civilization
A multi-chain DAO infrastructure service protocol, Bit Civilization aims to transform all aspects of human society like family, tool, language, belief, law, culture and art.

Learn more about Bit Civilization. 

“Airtable Is the New Excel” – NEAR Validators Dashboard
NEAR Validators Dashboard gives users a view of all validator details on the NEAR network.

Learn more about NEAR Validators Dashboard. 

“Build an NFT Marketplace” – Borealis
The winner of Aurora’s sponsor track, Borealis NFT marketplace facilitates the creation, buying, and selling of NFTs in an automated environment.

Learn more about Borealis. 

“Oracles” – Symm Finance
Symm, The winner of Aurora’s “Oracles” sponsor track, is a decentralized, fully on-chain exchange for perpetual futures built on NEAR’s Aurora, an Ethereum Virtual Machine.

Learn more about Symm Finance.

“ERC20-Factory” – Kahu
Kahu, the winner of Aurora’s “ERC2-Factory” sponsor track, allows non-technical blockchain users to easily mint ERC20 Tokens on Aurora, using advanced features. 

Learn more about Kahu. 

“Appchain Challenges” – SmartCV
SmartCV, winner of Octopus Network’s “Appchain Challenges” sponsor track, aims to help organizations find the right talent at low cost. It also allows employees to easily find the job positions most suitable for their talents and skills.

Learn more about SmartCV. 

The Full List of MetaBUILD 2 Winners
Curious about all of the other winning projects? Check out the full list of MetaBUILD 2 hackathon winners.
NFTs on NEAR: A Deep Dive into Paras
COMMUNITY
May 19, 2022

Paras, an NFT marketplace for digital art cards, is one of the most active communities within the NEAR ecosystem. What began as a decentralized social media platform is now a vibrant mecca for crypto art. Everything from one-off artworks to themed series can be found on Paras. 

Late last year, the Jakarta-headquartered team released a new product, Paras Comic. As the first home for digital comics on NEAR, writers and illustrators can upload their digital comics as collectible NFTs. Now, comics and crypto art fans alike can interact, engage, and support creators by buying NFTs, and even tipping the artists. 

The Paras team isn’t stopping with NFT artworks and comics. As co-founder Rahmat “Riqi” Albariqi tells NEAR Foundation, Paras plans to release a few other features in the coming months. It’s all part of the plan to be a broad cultural hub for NFTs. 

Paras: an origin story
It was 2017, and Riqi was in his final year at university. Like many early crypto adopters, he was initially attracted to the trading. But, as a developer, Riqi also began familiarizing himself with blockchain’s more technical aspects. He was interested in building decentralized apps, but didn’t feel the time was right to build a dapp. 

Fast forward to 2020. The crypto space was moving beyond trading. New protocols were emerging, and developers were building atop them. So, after leaving his job and taking a two-month break, Riqi dove head first into Web3 app development with his partner, Afiq Shofy. 

After successfully building some functional decentralized apps on Blockstacks, Riqi and Shofy launched Paras in March 2020. Initially, the two envisioned Paras as a “persona website generator”—a single page where users could present their avatar, resume, CV, and so on. 

“Then Afiq and I thought, why don’t we just do something bigger?,” Riqi recalls. “Why don’t we just make a decentralized social media platform because, you know, we already have the profiles, the avatars. We just need to build the post and comment [feature].” 

Taking Paras to NEAR
At about this time, Riqi and Shofy were looking for a more scalable blockchain. Ultimately, they landed on NEAR Protocol.

“At the end of the day, we just use NEAR because it’s way better than all the other blockchains out there,” says Riqi. “It’s scalable, easy to use. The tooling and everything else is great.”

This social media iteration of Paras launched on NEAR’s testnet in Q3 of 2020. But, as Riqi notes, within a few months it had failed. There weren’t many users, and the ones who did use Paras were part of an easily observable niche: novice digital artists. 

So, it was back to the drawing board for Riqi and Shofy. 

For months, the two considered turning Paras into a social media platform for digital artists. Something like Deviant Art, but on the blockchain. However, after researching NFTs on Ethereum, Riqi quickly realized there was steady NFT sales growth from August through October of 2020. 

“NFTs were getting hot and we thought, why not build an NFT marketplace instead of a social media platform,” says Riqi. “And when we interviewed users, they said they wanted to make more money from their art. So, NFTs solve the problem, right?”

Riqi and Shofy quickly reworked Paras into an NFT marketplace. “We rewrote everything,” says Riqi. In December, the two re-launched Paras as an NFT marketplace on NEAR. 

By early 2021, Paras had onboarded over 70 artists and 80 active collectors, who were generating revenue by selling and trading digital art cards. The number of artists and collectors using Paras has grown exponentially in the last year, thanks to the low-cost of minting artworks on NEAR. Paras now boasts 90K registered users, 20K of which are regular users. Together, 12K artists and 50K  collectors have generated approximately $18 million in artwork sales. 

This low barrier to entry has helped make Paras one of the the most popular NFT marketplaces and decentralized apps on the NEAR ecosystem. 

Paras and NFT curation
Some NFT marketplaces suffer, both visually and content-wise, from their decentralized nature. The sheer number and variety of NFT artworks, while inspiring, can quickly become confusing from a user experience perspective. 

Not so with Paras. Riqi, Shofy, and the rest of the team have given Paras a simple UX design, making it easy for users to find what they’re looking for. 

On the Paras homepage, users can peruse Featured Collections, which spotlight some of the platform’s most notable NFT artworks. There are also categories for the Top Collections of the last seven days, as well as works generating the Highest Sales. And if one is curious who the Top Buyers and Sellers are on Paras, those curatorial categories exist too. 

The “Publication” feature allows creators to enhance their visuals through a storytelling format. Within the Publication vertical, Paras empowers community curation via storytelling, but also offers a weekly Editorial, through which the team profiles the latest NFT creators and art. 

These curatorial efforts also extend to social media. The Paras Twitter account, in particular, showcases artworks popping up on their ecosystem. 

“If you look at our social media, we always promote indie artists or smaller creators,” Riqi explains. “We just retweet the artists’ post and give it some context and whatnot.”

“That’s really how we think about supporting smaller artists: just giving them more exposure,” he adds. “If we can nurture them, if we can connect them with the right person, if we can promote them, some can actually become big artists. And that’s how we think about it.”

Paras Comic
In December 2021, a year after launching on NEAR, the Paras team released its most recent feature—Paras Comic. A standalone app of sorts, Paras Comic is a way for creators, readers, and collectors to engage with comics without a centralized intermediary. 

On this new comics publishing platform, users can support creators by collecting NFT comics. Paras Comic already has titles like action fantasy manga ATMA, and the trippy fantasy comicBob Boom!!. And, if collectors like what they see and read, they can even tip the artists. 

Gary Edmund, a comics artist who has worked with Marvel and indie publishers, says publishing Bob Boom on Paras has been an absolute adventure. As he sees it, Paras and comics artists are doing something that’s never been done before. 

“I’ve worked for major (Marvel/Dynamite) comic book companies and indie companies for years: I was institutionalized to the boundaries of producing a comic in print form,” Edmund says. “Most digital comics are still done in that “printable format” form. Once I wrapped my head around the fact that I don’t have to do that within the NFT Universe, and I could just go fucking crazy, I did.”

Edmund says the Bob Boom! Plot is bonkers, even though it’s packaged as a “bounty hunter” comic. People might expect a Star Wars-esque story, but Edmund promises something different. A comic that obliterates the genre. He believes entertaining the Paras audience in this way is his job, in part, to counter the oversaturation of superhero movies, science fiction movies, and comics. 

“People think they have seen it all, but with Bob Boom! I’m able to shatter that with multiple art styles and insane plot twists,” he says. “Maybe some people think Bob Boom! goes too far at some points. I think it’s just the tip of the iceberg.”

“Once word gets out outside of the Paras community it’s going to blow up even bigger,” he adds. “Right now it’s the Paras community’s advantage to be able to invest in this comic when so many comic readers haven’t even dipped their toes into the NFT marketplace. Once your average ordinary everyday collector and your high end, high dollar, have to have the first of everything collectors are on Paras they are going to want these pioneering comics.”

Paras token staking, gaming, and other new features
Earlier this year, Paras launched NFT staking for the $PARAS token. Created as a utility token back in September 2021, $PARAS’s use cases include an exclusive pass to future deals and events, as well as for DAO governance. $PARAS staking will also be the foundation of governance, which is set to launch in the next couple of weeks.

There will be other ways to earn on the Paras platform. With ExVerse, Paras is beginning to explore play-to-earn (P2E) gaming. A free P2E MMO Battle Royale game, ExVerse is bridging the gap between the mainstream gaming industry and Web3. Think of it as a decentralized Fortnite. Or, as the ExVerse team calls it, “the first ever battle metaverse”, where players can sell NFT skins, boxes, and more.  

“[The creators of ExVerse] already have the playable game even before they sell it, so that’s something really unique in the NFT space,” says Riqi. “They have a really great team, great developers, and that’s why we partnered with them.”

“The big vision of Paras is to expand the endgame of NFTs—that’s really our big tagline,” says Riqi. “When we started with NFTs we thought, okay, some NFT art and games, and that’s it. But, now we believe that there is a lot more that can be built on top of the NFT ecosystem.”

NFTs as pop culture
Riqi believes mainstream crypto adoption starts with Paras Comic. Using it as a gateway, Paras plans to leverage comics culture and fandom to onboard more and more users, paving the way for future NFT offerings.

“We are currently working with a lot of different studios, from comic series, obviously, to Game Studios and IP [intellectual property] studios,” Riqi says. “You can’t really add more features to the Paras NFT marketplace, so in the next three to six months we’re going to launch several smaller projects.”

Paras will either develop these projects in-house or support entrepreneur teams with their financial or technical expertise. Riqi says the team is currently looking at digital books and fashion as just a few near future NFT offerings on Paras. 

“If you take a look at comic markets, the fashion industry, the gaming industry, all of them are related to this pop culture kind of stuff, right?” Riqi says. “So, that’s where Paras is heading.”

“We want to be known as a place for pop culture-related NFTs.”
How blockchain will save the Creator Economy
CASE STUDIES
July 7, 2021
Why NFTs, DAOs and Open Finance will change the world for artists and their communities.

Creators are Innovators
Creative industries have always led innovation because they’re fundamentally exploratory and hungry for ways to help create sustainably.

Hip Hop, for example, pushed the envelope in almost every possible way during its ascent from the streets to becoming the dominant form of music in the world. DJ Kool Herc, its commonly acknowledged progenitor, birthed a new art form when he extended dance-friendly breaks by combining multiple records across turntables in the ‘70s and others in the industry have driven innovation ever since.

Just like that first technological experimentation to make better dance parties in the Bronx started a revolution in music production, today we’re seeing the emergence of a new set of tools with the same power to enable artists to engage their fans and change the world.

In this post, I’ll walk through some of the problems that creators and communities face today and how a new blockchain-enabled toolkit will make them more aligned, engaged and sustainable.

The Creator Economy
The advent of the Internet in the late ’90s ushered in an era where people around the world could both create and consume much more easily than ever before. You can do more with a Macbook today than a whole studio could 20 years ago.

It also became substantially easier to find communities of common interest regardless of geography, and a larger portion of all our lives migrated into the digital realm. New hardware and software tools made it much easier to produce content — whether multi-platinum albums or simply micro-niche blog posts — while the web’s scale made it much easier to distribute this content.

Unfortunately, the boom in creation and the massive expansion of platforms to support large fanbases wasn’t matched by a similar boom in the sustainability of creators. In fact, while the increased size of audiences allowed top creators to reach a grander scale, the infinite replication of content and the power of distributors as middlemen made it more difficult for most other creators to benefit from their intellectual property (“IP”).

The relationship between creators and their communities drives the so-called Creator Economy, which is a dynamic between 3 factors:

Creators who produce something of value
Communities who support these creators
Financial tools and platforms to help make creators and their communities sustainable
The line between creators and communities can be blurry, for example when users generate content, but ultimately someone has to pay for something in order to create a sustainable economy.

Today, this economy is generally a one-way path where the creator produces something (eg an album), gets fans to consume it (typically losing most of the proceeds to the middlemen who control their relationship with fans) and tries to earn real income from secondary revenue streams like concerts or merchandise or sponsorships. This system is rife with problems and it’s only sustainable for creators with enormous or highly engaged fan bases, particularly if they’ve given away their IP rights along the way. This leaves the so-called “long tail” of smaller creators underserved and makes things tough even for the larger ones due to all the middlemen who have their hands in the pie.

 

What’s Changing Today
So how do we make the creator economy more sustainable for everyone?

It requires improving the underlying technology of the web to unlock new tools for both creators and their communities to build stronger, more sustainable bonds. Specifically, it means merging the technological revolution which started with Bitcoin in 2008 with today’s Internet to create new tools like NFTs, DAOs, Fungible Tokens and Open Finance (“defi”).

Here’s how it all fits together.

If you go back to the Creator Economy Triangle from before, each corner has needs that weren’t met before:

Creators haven’t been able to sustainably benefit from their IP because of the commodification of content in the digital world which devalues their creativity and which leaves them at the mercy of their distribution partners and the platforms holding their fanbases.
Communities haven’t been able to effectively self-organize outside of existing social platforms, make themselves sustainable or align their interests with those of the creators they support.
Financial tooling has limited the economy itself to one-time or recurring payments for goods or services because the tooling has been anchored in a world of bank accounts and Paypal-like providers. Royalty schemes and payments are also notoriously arcane, inconsistent and exploitative to creators.
In 2021, blockchain technology has finally arrived at the point where it can solve all three of these issues and unblock the Creator Economy.

This is because each of the key aspects of the Creator Economy is served by a specific set of tools which weren’t possible to combine like this before a platform like NEAR was available. This gives us a new Creator Economy Triangle, which shows how these tools — NFTs, DAOs, Fungible Tokens and Open Finance (“defi”) — interact:

At a high level, it breaks down like this:

NFTs are basically digital containers which can hold IP but which liberated it to be owned and traded so creators have a world of new ways to produce, distribute, remix and monetize content.
DAOs are basically like shared bank accounts for communities which are entirely digital so it’s really easy for communities to act almost like official co-ops or companies and build sustainable models for themselves. They can issue fungible tokens which are basically membership cards with a lot more potential superpowers to drive more engagement.
Open (“decentralized”) Finance is a whole toolkit which allows creators, communities, NFTs, DAOs, fungible tokens and all the other pieces of the digital economy to plug into each other in ways that no one has ever done before, allowing entirely new ways of earning income for creators or benefitting from the upside of membership for community members.
Let’s look a little deeper into each of these pieces and why they’re so powerful to help creators.

 

NFTs: Tools for Creators
NFTs are understandably confusing for many people, so I’ll break it down in plain English.

The most important concept in NFTs is that, after decades of infinitely sharing creative output on the Internet, we finally have digital scarcity. That means that we can finally prove that a particular file or piece of content or piece of data is uniquely owned by a single person.

> Aside: Bitcoin to NFTs
All digital tokens, including NFTs, are based on the same principle as Bitcoin because it uses the same type of technology — “blockchain.” What the creator of Bitcoin figured out is that, if we create a globally shared ledger that records the owner of every single bitcoin in the world, we can always know exactly how many Bitcoin there are in the world and make sure no one is spending them twice.

If you ever hosted a website on Geocities back in the day and watched it get lost forever because their platform shut down, you understand the value of protecting your important assets from deletion. What Bitcoin figured out is that you can essentially share the hosting of this ledger among thousands of people around the world so, unlike Geocities, it can never get deleted just because one of them got shut down.

So, fundamentally, an NFT is just like a Bitcoin — it’s a unique piece of data that everyone in the world agrees is owned by, say, Joe Smith because thousands of people are running the NEAR network together and agree on it. What’s different is that NFTs are much more advanced than Bitcoins.

A bitcoin is really pretty boring — I can show you that I own one, I can send it to my friend to pay for something and I can do a few more simple operations with it. An NFT, because it’s built on a much more advanced network, is basically an empty container that can hold any type of data AND you can program it to do anything just like software.

Why NFTs are so powerful
Here’s why that’s so useful for artists, using a simple example. Let’s say an artist has created a piece of digital artwork. In today’s world, those rights are usually stored in the server of some record label somewhere and backed up by a paper signature on some lawyer’s document or, if the creator is independent, it’s at least protected by copyright law so the artist just owns it. Every time the artist allows someone to use it (officially), they or their manager have to explicitly allow it to happen with some sort of signature, which really slows things down and limits how it can be used.

If the artist assigns the IP rights to an NFT, that NFT becomes like a bearer-bond because whoever holds it can now use the legal right. In the simplest case, that person can display it on their digital wall just like a piece of art in the real world and they can know that it’s truly *theirs* to display. But, unlike a painting in the real world which can be bought or sold in a smoke-filled room somewhere and the artist never knows, NFTs are digital objects that can be programmed to do anything and you can always know where they are.

In the physical world, the artist makes revenue from selling an original edition and maybe the rights to produce more. When these things are resold, the artist never knows about it and never earns any income from it. Because NFTs are digital objects that live on the NEAR blockchain, every time they are bought and sold, the artist can be notified and paid a commission. Every time, in every location. Not just that, but the NFT can be programmed to permanently split that revenue however you want — maybe 10% goes to the artist, 5% to the agency which helped create it, 4% to the artist’s union and 1% to a charity they support. Maybe 5% gets split among everyone who previously owned this NFT so they are incentivized to help it retain value. Anything is possible.

That’s not even the best part.

Because NFTs can send cash back to the artist automatically when they’re traded, they can be traded anywhere. Before today, digital items were stuck in centralized marketplaces because that was the only way that companies could pull revenue from their resales. For example, digital skins which are created and traded in the Fortnite ecosystem need to be purchased on Fortnite’s proprietary platform so they can get their cut. But now that the NFT itself will always send the money back home, it can be traded anywhere and the artist or original IP holder will always get paid.

Let me ask you — back when you were a kid and traded collectibles, did you do so on some official company marketplace or unofficially among your friends? Exactly. Now, everyone from artists to big IP-holding companies are incentivized to set their NFTs free so people can trade them anywhere in the world. Suddenly, everyone’s interests are aligned to set the art free! This will result in orders of magnitude more transactions. More trading.

Because NFTs are infinitely programmable, we don’t even know yet all the cool ways they can be used. It’s possible to use NFTs as membership cards which give people access to special events. The artwork becomes more than just a thing to display or a cash flow, they become a special designation of status that the artist or anyone else can use to give special privileges to the holder of. What else might be possible?

DAOs and FTs: Tools for Communities
A “DAO” is a decentralized autonomous organization–– which uses an admittedly clunky acronym to represent a formalized community that can self-govern and take on some aspects of a company.

Everyone who uses the blockchain gets a NEAR account. It’s sort of like a Facebook or Google or bank account except that, just like NFTs, it’s permanent because it lives on NEAR’s “forever network” and it’s not associated with any particular company. It’s 100% yours and you can call it whatever you want – for example by naming it after your Twitter or Insta handle (I see you `machoman99`). This account can store your tokens, your NFTs or pretty much anything else you do on the platform.

A DAO is basically just a more advanced account which can be shared between a group of people. In this way, it’s similar to a bank account but it doesn’t actually need a bank.

Why DAOs are so powerful
DAOs are useful because they can do anything an individual user can but they can also represent all of the users who are their members. In the simplest example, you can store a bunch of tokens in a DAO and the group of users in the community can vote to send them to different places. Let’s use the example of a fanclub DAO we’ll call `dj_blokk_fanclub`, where fans of that artist pool funds to buy VIP tickets for a show and raffle them off. Because the community exists on a permanent platform like NEAR, it isn’t lost if Facebook or Snap suddenly become less popular.

This example is simple but bear with me. Just like NFTs, DAOs are a basic tool that quickly gets extremely powerful.

For example, a community can issue a token (it’s called a “Fungible Token” aka “FT”) and use that token to determine what kind of privileges their members get. For example, let’s say our DAO issues 10,000 `$BLOKK` tokens to split among the fanclub’s early members and then automatically creates another 10,000 each year that can be distributed to new members, really helpful members who help the group govern itself, or people who refer new members. And let’s say members need to hold 10 `$BLOKK` tokens to join the VIP Discord server. This incentivizes community members to be extra engaged and helpful.

Or maybe the community’s DAO issues the same 10,000 `$BLOKK` tokens but gives 1,000 to the actual DJ Blokk in appreciation and DJ Blokk gives special VIP show access to anyone who holds more than 100 `$BLOKK` tokens. This is important because now the creator and the community are beginning to directly align themselves. And the token suddenly has value as well.

Finally, it gets magical when we combine the DAO with NFTs. Let’s say DJ Blokk is putting together a new single and wants to fund it from within the community. The artist can sell `$BLOKK` tokens and, in exchange, issue an NFT that sends some of its royalty stream back to the community’s DAO.

Suddenly, you’ve unlocked:

A way for communities to be platform independent and distribute funds
A crowdfunding mechanism for artists
A way for community members to be financially aligned with making the artists they support successful, creating extremely high engagement and virality.
As with NFTs, we still don’t know all the ways you can use DAOs to support creators and communities but just these few are enough to break existing industry models.

Decentralized Finance: Making it Sustainable
Creators usually only think about payments when they’re broken. “Can people in [insert country] buy my merch? Great.” As a quick review, we’ve already introduced some new NEAR-powerd financial tools —

NFTs can be programmed to send royalties anywhere when they are traded
DAOs give communities the ability to send payments and issue tokens without a traditional bank account
As before, let’s explore what’s possible by building up from the simple stuff.

For starters, our creator’s NFTs or our community’s `$BLOKK` token need to be bought and sold somehow. Consumers need to easily click an Instagram link to purchase the initial NFT, buy it on a marketplace somewhere or get their hands on `$BLOKK` tokens so they can get in the VIP club. This is all straightforward stuff that can be done with familiar credit card processing on NEAR.

Things get more interesting when you consider what people might do when they are holding their new NFT or `$BLOKK` token in their accounts. Before today, if I bought a collectible online or received it for attending a concert, it would just sit in my account on that one single platform or scattered across multiple independent platforms which don’t communicate with each other.

Today, getting those collectibles is just the beginning. For example, a community of fans may decide to set up a DAO for themselves which purchases very rare NFTs. These NFTs can then be used as collateral in automated lending platforms to borrow more money to participate in future sales that might only be open to the holders of those NFTs. The community DAO could even issue their own tokens so small pieces of the portfolio can be easily traded and people around the world can participate. All of this is part of a stable, global financial system which has previously only been accessible to the wealthier countries.

Essentially, assets that were created in the digital world have access to the entire suite of sophisticated financial tools that historically were only available to wealthy investors. Because of this, there are markets around the world for each of these tokens and NFTs which makes them much more liquid and thus more desirable to hold. It’s hard to sell a Picasso, but much easier to sell tiny portions of NFTs from the DAO above.

More simply, holders of these collectibles can buy, sell, trade or combine them with others to access real world benefits, play in digital games, or otherwise engage more deeply with their creators.

If you’re lost in the financial language, the key takeaway is this — NFTs issued by artists typically benefit most when they are frequently traded and the new decentralized financial toolkit makes this extremely easy compared to the way it works in the traditional world.

But, as with NFTs and DAOs, we still haven’t even figured out all the ways this technology can be used. Luckily, it’s easier to remix these tools than it ever has been. A developer in a single weekend can now build sophisticated financial products that securely handle these assets and their cash flows, which normally would take a team of developers with millions of dollars in venture capital months to put together. This means that the speed of innovation is finally moving at the pace of creativity so artists can get directly involved in the creation, building, remixing and experimentation of new tools that produce new art, engage fans and generate novel revenue streams.

Tying it all Together
Where are we now and where is the ball going?

While blockchains have been around since Bitcoin arrived in 2008 and many of the core ideas — NFTs, DAOs, Fungible Tokens and Defi — have been in experimentation on Ethereum since 2016, NEAR’s launch late last year was the first time a platform came to life which could make these tools accessible to everyday creators, communities and fans.

A lot of the financial tooling of Defi was built and tested on Ethereum, particularly during mid-2020, but remains prohibitively expensive and complicated for most people to use.

NFTs had a moment in late 2020 and early 2021 when a bunch of artists started making eye-popping sales and big companies started playing with gamification but these experiences were incomplete because they either couldn’t be accessed by everyday people due to cost and and usability concerns or they were part of wholly owned “walled gardens” which leave the assets isolated.

DAOs are just starting to pick up momentum because, until now, there hasn’t been a way to make them useful to consumers due to cost and usability concerns. Now that this final piece has been solved on NEAR, DAOs will finally be able to serve communities as they were meant to.

So, the tech has finally arrived to use these tools but we’re still in the explore-and-mix phase. It’s like the first time DJ Kool Herc kept that break beat going between two records — we just had the major “aha!” moment and now it’s up to the creators and communities of the world to take these tools and get this party started.

…and, if you’re ready to do so, reach out!

For creators or IP holders with massive fanbases, reach out to [email protected] to see how this can be transformed into an engaging, repeated revenue stream. For community leaders interested in upleveling their community engagement and sustainability, reach out to [email protected]. Finally, if you’re a developer who wants to hack on this stuff, check out https://docs.near.org and the free 5-day bootcamp at https://learnnear.club/certified-near-developer-application/.
NEAR Foundation and ARterra Labs Level Up Gaming Fandom for the Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 31, 2023
The ever-expanding gaming landscape faces significant challenges such as engagement and identity fragmentation. As fans navigate platforms like Twitch, Discord, and YouTube, brands and creators struggle to monetize their fan bases effectively. This is where ARterra Labs steps in — a company on a mission to revolutionize fan engagement and unlock Web3 fandom for the gaming industry.

ARterra Labs aims to transform fan engagement in gaming by integrating its innovative Web3 solutions into existing Web2 ecosystems. Bridging the gap between platforms and simplifying monetization, ARterra Labs is set to attract millions of gamers through strategic partnerships and an ambitious plan to onboard over 5 million users, positioning itself as a game-changer in the industry.

As ARterra Labs redefines gaming engagement, the NEAR Foundation’s blockchain technology will play a crucial role, powering ARterra’s innovative solutions such as the credential-based fan passport and the Battle Pass system.  

How ARterra’s Battle Pass is energizing Web3 gaming
ARterra Labs deploys three distinct products aimed at transforming the gaming landscape. With a credential-based fan passport, they offer a secure platform for fans to exhibit their unique identities and interests. 

In addition, they introduce metaverse experiences, allowing fans to interact, engage, and form deeper bonds with their favorite franchises. Completing the trifecta is the Battle Pass system, a tiered reward structure that gamifies fan engagement, incentivizing both participation and loyalty. 

ARterra Labs’ metaverse experiences immerse fans in virtual worlds where they can interact, engage, and connect with their favorite franchises. And the Battle Pass system gamifies fan engagement with a tiered reward system, incentivizing participation and loyalty.
Central to ARterra’s strategy, the Battle Pass is a reward system on the NEAR blockchain, connecting to other chains via the BOS and LayerZero. It propels NFT liquidity within the NEAR ecosystem and unites gaming communities across networks. By rewarding active engagement, Battle Pass bolsters user loyalty and underscores NEAR’s role in settling cross-chain gaming transactions.

Together, these three products serve as the foundation for ARterra Labs’ Experience Hub — an open-source marketplace that enables the creation of User-Generated Content (UGC) experiences for distribution to their extensive network. ARterra’s User-Generated Content (UGC) — primarily enabled through Fortnite’s Creative mode — serves as another cornerstone to its success, already captivating over 46 million gamers and maintaining a steady base of 500,000 monthly players.

User experience and seamless onboarding play a critical role in ushering these gamers into the Web3 ecosystem. Key alliances with industry leaders like Complexity Gaming and GRID Esports’ Champion of Champions Tournament (CCT) further reinforce ARterra’s prominence.

ARterra’s market strategy is twofold. Initially, it centers on activating Web3 fandom, using user-generated content effectively, and fostering unity in the gaming community. The second focus involves collaborating with premier Web3 gaming entities, offering gamer incentives, and constantly refining these tactics with data insights.

Reshaping gaming for an open web
Blending NEAR’s fast and scalable blockchain with ARterra’s innovative approach to gaming, the partnership is set to bring about radical improvements to the Web3 gaming experience. ARterra’s unique tools like the Discord-native tournament platform and the Battle Pass will foster enhanced interactions between gamers, developers, and brands.

The alliance, cemented by a 12-month agreement that’s extendable indefinitely, emphasizes the faith NEAR Foundation is placing in ARterra’s potential. This cooperative venture bolsters NEAR’s position as the gaming fandom’s settlement layer across multiple chains while also ensuring priority access for NEAR ecosystem games to ARterra’s platform.

It’s also a win-win for both players and builders. Gamers gain an immersive environment where rewards and exclusive content are the norm. Developers are offered a supportive platform, underpinned by the NEAR BOS and protocol, while brands can tap into a vibrant, engaged, and diverse audience.

With ARterra Labs and NEAR Foundation’s shared vision, the focus will be on expanding and refining gaming platforms to attract more users, developers, and partners. The two will be dedicated to adding value within the gaming community, setting the stage for a significant growth spurt in the NEAR and Web3 gaming ecosystems alike.

Amplifying the open web gaming journey with Battle Pass, metaverse realities, and the fan passport, ARterra Labs and NEAR Foundation don’t merely enhance the experience — they define a new standard. It’s a game-changing era in Web3 and fans are just barely unlocking the first level.


Aurora launches on NEAR Protocol
COMMUNITY
May 12, 2021
Aurora Provides an Ethereum Layer-2 Experience
The explosive growth of DeFi and NFTs frequently causes surges in Ethereum gas prices––a problem that economically limits the participation of many users, and prevents dApp developers from scaling their businesses to their full potential. To address these challenges, we’re proud to announce the mainnet release of Aurora, a turnkey solution for developers seeking to extend their dApps to reach additional markets.

Aurora runs on NEAR Protocol and takes advantage of its many unique features, including sharding and developer gas fee remuneration. Aurora consists of two core components: the Aurora Engine runtime, which allows for the seamless deployment of Solidity and Vyper smart contracts, and the Aurora Bridge (based on the Rainbow Bridge technology), providing for the permissionless transfer of tokens and data between Ethereum and Aurora. 

Aurora provides a number of enhancements for developers:

Aurora fees are up to 1,000x lower than Ethereum’s. For example, the cost of transferring a ERC-20 token is below $0.01, while for Ethereum (at 50 Gwei and an ETH price of $3,000), it’s around $5.40.
Aurora is able to host thousands of transactions per second, representing an increase of 50x compared to Ethereum 1.0. 
Aurora transaction finality inherits from the underlying NEAR Protocol, i.e. two NEAR blocks, or approximately two seconds—substantially lower even than a single block confirmation time of 13 seconds in Ethereum (which is not enough for transaction finality). Also, fast finality of NEAR blockchain reduces significantly the risk of frontrunning attacks.
Ecosystem growth on Aurora is future-proof: the sharding approach of the underlying NEAR Protocol provides for horizontal EVM scaling, with asynchronous communication between multiple Aurora shards.
Aurora offers a greener option for Ethereum users: full, uncompromising Ethereum compatibility on top of the decentralised and climate-neutral Proof-of-Stake L1 NEAR Protocol.
Aurora solves the current and future computational challenges of the Ethereum ecosystem, while preserving the existing engineering investment in both smart contracts and front-end code.

Aurora architecture
Aurora is implemented as a smart contract on the NEAR blockchain. What does this mean?

Aurora can benefit from all current and future advantages of NEAR blockchain
Simplification of the early-stage maintenance, upgrade, and governance of Aurora, enabling rapid response times in case of emergency such as the discovery of security vulnerabilities. 
Soon after launch, the plan is to make use of SputnikDAO version 2, a customizable DAO-based governance framework on NEAR, to launch AuroraDAO for ecosystem governance.
The current architecture of Aurora looks as follows:

The Aurora smart contract implements two main interfaces: Execution and Token. The Execution interface allows users to send ordinary Ethereum transactions (for example, created with MetaMask, ethers.js or web3.py). Underneath, these transactions get decoded (RLP), verified (secp256k1), and executed in the EVM runtime (Sputnik VM).

Some operations allowed in the EVM runtime may be moved to the NEAR Protocol level (and thus become precompiles) in case a smart contract does not deliver the target performance. For example, there is currently a scheduled NEAR Protocol upgrade, which will include an extended Math API.

Aurora also allows for permissionless token bridging. It uses the Rainbow Bridge technology for transfers from Ethereum and internal NEAR token transfers to allow for NEAR-native assets to be transferred to Aurora. Thus Aurora becomes a point of connection for Ethereum and NEAR economies.

 

In case of the need for additional precompiles, a protocol upgrade will be proposed to NEAR validators. The information on the required precompiles will be collected once sufficient load testing has been performed.

As per the outcome of the discussion on the Aurora base token, the EVM runtime will maintain native balances in Ether (ETH). This means that a user should move their ETH over the Aurora Bridge before sending any other transactions.

In order not to confuse users, the team decided that the Aurora contract will implement a fungible token interface, which will represent the user’s ETH balance in both the NEAR base runtime and the Aurora runtime. Users should be able to withdraw and deposit ETH to NEAR, and this will be implemented as a separate bridge connector interface, which underneath will speak to the core bridge contracts. This became possible due to the extensible and permissionless nature of the Rainbow Bridge protocol (see more on the bridge architecture here).

The code for the Aurora contract and adjacent tools can be found in the Aurora organisation on Github.

Using ETH to pay for gas fees on Aurora
One of the most notable design decisions is the use of ETH as the base currency within Aurora, for the payment of transaction fees. While a lot of the Ethereum layer 2s require users and developers to acquire the L2’s native tokens, Aurora wants to offer a straightforward, seamless experience for users and developers from the Ethereum community.

The approach is the following:

To understand the ETH gas price in the Aurora runtime, a standard JSON-RPC endpoint `eth_gasPrice` is used. The returned value will be used for the future ETH payment to the RPC node (see step 6).
A user signs an ordinary Ethereum transaction with their familiar tools (MetaMask, Wallet Connect compatible wallet, CLI, JS libraries, etc.) and sends it to the RPC.
The RPC wraps the Ethereum transaction into a NEAR transaction and sends it to the Aurora contract.
On the protocol level, the RPC signature is verified and the initial Ethereum transaction is passed to the Aurora Engine contract.
The Aurora Engine contract parses the Ethereum transaction and executes it, calculating the EVM gas usage on the way. By the end of the Ethereum transaction execution, some NEAR gas is already burned (according to the rules of NEAR Protocol), while ETH gas is just a calculated number in the Aurora contract.
In order to pay for the NEAR gas fee, ETH is used: the Aurora contract calculates the transaction fee and transfers it from the user account to the RPC account.
This approach is viewed from the user side as just paying ETH to the protocol, while in fact it is the $NEAR token which is used for the fees, and RPC nodes acting as proxies/relayers between the user and the NEAR blockchain.

As the first step, the RPC would be able to provide the ETH gas price that will be sufficient for paying for the relaying service. Moreover, based on the responses from the multiple RPC nodes, users would be able to decide which one to use. In the future, relaying services may be structured similarly to OpenGSN.

Find more information on ETH as the base token in this governance forum discussion.

Aurora Roadmap
Besides hotfixing Aurora after its release, the team has the following major milestones in mind:

Summer 2021:
Uncompromising Ethereum compatibility. At the moment there are several minor updates to the NEAR Protocol that are going to be included in the next protocol upgrade, so as to enable Aurora to achieve 100% compatibility with Ethereum 1.0.
DAO formation. We believe that the only way forward with projects like Aurora is to implement a truly decentralised governance and upgradability approach. Accordingly, we’re going to establish a DAO to govern Aurora.
[Potential] token inception. Once the DAO forms, there will be a decision regarding the creation of an Aurora token. Discussions will happen over the summer.
Autumn 2021:
Fast token transfers. Because of the limitations of the Ethereum blockchain (high transaction fees, slow finality of transactions, and the absence of EIP-665), transfers over the Rainbow Bridge in the direction of Ethereum are currently slow: it can take up to 16 hours for a transfer from NEAR to Ethereum. We are going to solve this problem for fungible token transfers.
Simplified “Hide the Blockchain” Experience. The advanced account model of NEAR Protocol enables seamless interaction with the blockchain even for users who aren’t familiar with crypto UX elements like wallets and additional software. In fact, there’s a way to completely hide the blockchain details from the end user. We plan to introduce a similar logic to Aurora.
Gas fee denominated in ERC-20s. The way the Aurora RPC works gives us an ability to naturally propose to the user to pay the transaction fee with any ERC-20 token. In other words, users could pay their transaction fee in USDT or DAI.
2022:
Horizontal scaling. The major feature of the NEAR Protocol is sharding and the ability to dynamically scale the blockchain. Our end goal is to deliver this functionality to the Ethereum ecosystem through enabling sharding for Aurora.
Try Aurora Today 
With low costs, best-in-class transaction finality, and scalability, Aurora redefines what is possible in the Ethereum ecosystem while also expanding NEAR’s ecosystem to welcome and accommodate EVM-based applications.

With Aurora, Ethereum users can work with familiar applications while benefiting from the efficiency of NEAR; as the transaction cost is several orders of magnitude cheaper than that of Ethereum, Aurora removes a steep financial barrier to entry for users and developers––especially newcomers to the ecosystem. Our goal is to create an interoperable future where the gaps between blockchains, developers, and users are bridged. Aurora does just that by allowing for a seamless user experience and allowing assets to pass uninterrupted between the Ethereum and NEAR blockchains. Merging crypto-economies can facilitate the development of creator communities that will bring this technology to the mainstream.

Aurora is fully compatible with Ethereum 1.0, including base fees paid in ETH and out-of-the-box operability with all existing wallets and other tools. To start using Aurora, please visit https://aurora.dev. 

—

Join the Aurora community via our official Telegram group, Developer Telegram group, Support Telegram group, and follow us on Twitter. 

Disclaimer: This article is provided for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be used as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.
Case Study: Satori’s Jeff Bissinger Talks NEAR Tasks for the Gig Economy
CASE STUDIES
July 31, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In these Case Study videos, NEAR Foundation showcases some of these projects. 

In the latest NEAR Foundation Case Study video, we hear from Jeff Bissinger, Product Manager at Satori. As a product team building innovative Web3 solutions, Satori is creating AI integrations that enable people to work with purpose. NEAR Tasks, which launched at Consensus 2023 in Austin, is one of Satori’s latest products. 

In this case study video, Jeff Bissinger takes viewers on a trip into NEAR Tasks — Satori’s effort to blend the gig economy with blockchain technology. With NEAR Tasks, users can earn $NEAR while completing simple, yet meaningful, AI related tasks
Case Study: Sweat Economy’s Oleg Fomenko on Reshaping Fitness with Move-to-Earn
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 12, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In recent installments, NEAR Foundation explored the BOS with Pagoda’s Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi, and heard from OnMachina co-founder Jonathan Bryce on building decentralized storage. 

In the latest case study, Sweat Economy founder Oleg Fomenko talks about revolutionizing fitness with blockchain technology. Aside from talking about Sweat Economy’s integration with NEAR, Fomenko also talks about integrating the Sweat Wallet app with the BOS. With over 6 million active users, the Sweat Wallet is the most active dApp on NEAR. 

Watch the Sweat Economy Case Study video below.

Sweat Economy’s Learn & Earn program brings in over 200,000 users
As part of its partnership with NEAR Foundation, Sweat Economy launched its Learn & Earn feature in the Sweat Wallet to educate users about Stablecoins and promote USDT on NEAR in the Sweat Wallet. 

In Sweat Economy’s Learn & Earn Program, which ran from May 23-31, Sweat Wallet users were rewarded with 1 USDT by completing the “What are Stablecoins?”  lesson and an interactive quiz. In total, 100,000 USDT was given out as rewards in this initiative. In just 9 Days: 

245,048+ users started the lesson
218,789 users completed the lesson: 218,789
130,068 users completed the lesson & quiz: 
100,000+ users were rewarded with 1 USDT (by completing the lesson and passing the quiz within 6 attempts)

Shemaroo and NEAR Foundation Accelerate Web3 Adoption in Indian Media and Entertainment
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 2, 2023
Shemaroo Entertainment, a prominent Indian content powerhouse with a diverse library of over 3,700 movie titles, a subscriber userbase of over 200 million people, and a vast global distribution network, is forging a strategic partnership with the NEAR Foundation to foster Web3 innovation in the media and entertainment industry — across  India and beyond. The partnership also paints an even brighter picture for NEAR and the entertainment sector.

With six decades of experience in Indian cinema, Shemaroo is synonymous with the Indian entertainment picture, consistently staying at the forefront of technological advancements, and adapting to the ever-changing landscape of content consumption. Sheramoo’s latest foray into Web3 and the metaverse with NEAR Foundation is the latest example.

Through this collaboration, Shemaroo aims to explore the potential applications of blockchain technology by establishing a dedicated Web3 innovation cell. The cell will focus on unlocking new opportunities for decentralization, transparency, and immutability in the media and entertainment sector. 

With over 600 employees in Delhi, Mumbai, and New Jersey, Sheramoo’s already global reach in the entertainment industry is rapidly growing. Sheramoo’s app is also available and used in over 150 countries and counting. This extensive and expanding global presence positions Shemaroo perfectly to explore and capitalize on the potential of Web3 in entertainment — powered by the NEAR Blockchain Operating System.

Shemaroo expands Web3 into Indian media
Together, Shemaroo and NEAR Foundation will develop pioneering products and services that leverage Web3 and Sheramoo’s vast content library. The Web 3 innovation cell will become a breeding ground for groundbreaking ideas in how blockchain technology can reshape multiple facets of the entertainment industry.

Shemaroo will take advantage of the BOS to develop scalable blockchain and smart contract services in areas like content distribution, rights management, and audience engagement. Hiren Gada, CEO of Shemaroo Entertainment, expressed enthusiasm for the partnership and the potential it holds for the future of media.

“As a forward-thinking company, we are always looking for new ways to innovate and enhance our offerings to better serve our users,” says Gada “We believe that blockchain technology has the potential to unlock new possibilities and create new revenue streams for the industry.” 

Gada also highlighted the benefits of NEAR becoming the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), which will ease and accelerate Sheramoo’s adoption of Web3, and reduce the time to market for projects. With NEAR, Shemaroo will provide Indian entertainment enthusiasts with enhanced security, faster transaction speeds, and lower costs for all forms of content engagement. 

Building Shemaroo’s next-gen content on NEAR
The partnership is expected to produce numerous benefits for both ecosystems. Shemaroo stands to increase brand awareness, reach new audiences, and develop fresh revenue streams while integrating cutting-edge technologies into its content. By building on NEAR, Shemaroo will be able to integrate things like NFTs and immersive metaverse experiences into both its vast existing library and future content.

Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, shared her excitement about the partnership, saying, “We are thrilled to partner with Shemaroo Entertainment, a company with a rich history in Indian cinema and a vast market reach.” 

Flament added, “With a collection of over 3,700 movie titles and content distribution partners like Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, and YouTube, Shemaroo will expose NEAR to a completely new audience.”

Shemaroo garners over 100 million views per day, with a massive cumulative subscriber base of over 200 million. This impressive audience reach will make NEAR more visible in an important market, contributing to its broader vision of bringing one billion people to Web3 through strategic partnerships.

The partnership also helps increase the adoption of BOS, demonstrates the potential of blockchain technology in media and entertainment, and will attract new developers and partners in both the region and the entertainment industry. The partnership comes just shortly after the Foundation appointed Arpit Sharma to spearhead regional growth in India, ASEAN, and the Middle East.

The partnership between Shemaroo Entertainment and NEAR Foundation is an important step towards unlocking the full potential of blockchain technology in the world of media and entertainment. Using the Indian region as a breeding ground for innovation via Sheramoo’s Web3 cell, they’ll be setting a new standard for new forms of content for existing libraries.


March of the Ambassadors | September 6th, 2019
COMMUNITY
September 6, 2019
In the last two weeks we set a new record for pull requests on GitHub with 126 PRs! We’re really picking up steam towards shipping MainNet. Also, we’ve kicked off our ambassador program with the first call. It went really well and now we’ve got ambassadors across 17 countries. These guys are awesome, and they’re kicking off events all over the world. Stay tuned for an event in your area, and if you don’t have an ambassador or a meetup for NEAR near you (hehe), then you should become an ambassador! Finally, we’ve expanded the team across Russia, Ukraine, Germany. If you think it’s time you joined us, check out our open positions. As usual, links below in their respective sections.

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
We’re going to be heading to China and Korea this month, and we’ll be at DevCon as well. If you’re in one of those areas, make sure to come say hi! Those events are not yet set in stone, but here are a few coming up soon! Events in Korea and Japan will be announced in the next update

[Shanghai] 9/16; Staking in Shanghai 2 to 6pm at 外滩茂悦大酒店 Hyatt The Bund
[Shanghai] 9/16; Math Wallet Meetup 5:30pm at The Bund
[Shanghai] 9/17; Wanxiang Panel: Developer Friendly & User Friendly Blockchain 3:50pm to 4:30pm at the Bund
[Shanghai] 9/17; IOSG event 5:30pm to 9pm at LAVIN Rose in The Bund
[Shanghai] Tech workshop TBD! (stay tuned)
Also, our co-founder Illia led our very first AMA for the Chinese community. Chinese speakers: Check out the short video below!

Video Player

00:00
01:22


WRITING AND CONTENT
Three new whiteboard series released! And, we’re officially a token type with Satoshi Labs. Check out this last tweet from Berlin below.

NEAR is now officially registered coin type https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/pull/718
Our Beta Program participant Flux got a major engagement during ETH Berlin (good blog explaining Chainlink limitations and how Augur helped them)
Whiteboard ep 27 with Xiaoshan Zhu from Meter https://youtu.be/7-4UNSyoK9M
Whiteboard ep 28 with Jaynti Kanani from Matic https://youtu.be/P0hDzOzwzYw 
Whiteboard ep 29 with Taylor Wei from TOP Network: https://youtu.be/PXLjORNlqlE 
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
The recent major release has fully reworked our transaction bindings. You can now atomically batch transactions. For example, you can create an account and call a function in one atomic operation. This is impossible on most other blockchains! For instance, if you create an account on Ethereum, it requires multiple transactions. If one of those fails, you might have a gremlin account or you might be stuck in limbo. Not today, failed transactions. Not today.

Additionally, we’ve moved serialization to our in house serializer, Borsh. Make sure to check out the website. This is the first binary serializer for security critical projects. And it’s fast!

A record 126 PRs across 20 repos by 18 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, near-wallet, near-bindgen, and borsh.

We’ve shipped 0.3.0 of core!
The work on Nightshade (Near Sharding Design) is merged into staging from its own branch. Thus, version 0.4.0 of the testnet will be the first sharded version.
Reworking the block production to make it simpler and better handle some corner cases.
A large pull request with the first implementation of the routing is merged in.
Nodes can now explicitly specify which shards they are tracking.
Proper propagation of errors in the storage layer.
Proper checks for the first block after state syncing.
Added proper verification that the block producers send correct receipts between shards.
The stability of the branch in which we are working on the implementation of Nightshade (NEAR sharding design) is improving rapidly. With the most recent changes it passes core protocol CI.
Updated near-bindgen to be safer and use new bindings.
Our binary serializer now has its own website! http://borsh.io
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!
If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Women of Web3 Changemakers: Cathy Hackl
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 31, 2023
“I have always said that I’m not the typical face you see representing technology, and that’s why it’s essential for everyone to know that the future is for all,” says Cathy Hackl, a leading authority in emerging tech and co-founder of Journey, a consultancy that advises companies, brands, cities and governments about gaming, AR, AI, spatial computing, metaverse, web3, and virtual world strategies.

Hackl is one of the 10 finalists of the 2023 Women in Web3 Changemakers List, an annual competition designed to champion women pushing boundaries in the space. Hackl, along with nine other outstanding candidates, are showing the industry the change women are bringing about during the advent of the Open Web. 

Hackl was selected not only for her work advising companies like Nike, Walmart, Louis Vuitton, and Clinique on navigating emerging digital spaces and technologies, but her tireless work as an educator.

She has taught at IE Business School and SDA Bocconi School of Management, two of the world’s leading business schools, and spoke at Ivy League universities across America. Hackl is one of the world’s leading female tech trailblazers that is constantly evolving and helping build a more inclusive future.

But Hackl’s journey to becoming one of the world’s foremost leaders on emerging technologies nearly didn’t happen. 

A chance encounter 
Hackl started her career working in live video and live streaming in silicon valley. But it wasn’t until a chance encounter with VR that led her career in a completely new direction. 

“I was invited to an event where there were some VR demos. I had the opportunity to try on a VR headset for the first time and experienced what it would be like to be in a solitary confinement cell in virtual reality. Within a few minutes, I felt claustrophobic and I took the device off, but something had changed. It felt like I was able to fully turn on my humanity dial again. I also knew I had seen something important, maybe it was part of the future of storytelling or maybe it was the future of business, but I was sure of one thing: this is what I wanted to do for the rest of my life.”

Soon after that moment, Hackl left the video production space and went all in on AR and VR. Stints at companies like HTC and its VIVE VR project led Hackl to landing her dream job at Magic Leap, the American technology company specialising in augmented reality. 

It was here that technologist Neal Stephenson and Chief Futurist at Magic Leap first coined the term “Metaverse”. But for Hackl, it wasn’t to be. When the pandemic struck she was among many that were laid off as the company contracted. 

“I had to ask myself: what do I do now? This led me to Amazon Web Services, where I worked on several projects including large scale simulations and learned a lot about cloud computing.”

During the Covid years, Hackl had been writing a lot about the Metaverse after she was first exposed to it at Magic Leap, helping her to connect to companies looking to explore the space.  

“I eventually got the courage to leave AWS and launch off on my own. In 2021 I founded my own consulting firm. In just 10 months my company was acquired by Journey, where I am currently the co-founder and I lead the company’s virtual, gaming, and Metaverse studio.”

Since then, Hackl has become one of the main proponents of metaverse technology, especially for women. 

The future is female 
According to research by McKinsey, women are spending more time in the proto-metaverse than men are and are more likely to spearhead and implement metaverse initiatives. 

However, just as in the tech sector as a whole, women represent a minority in the metaverse economy. Both the entrepreneurial capital and the CEO roles in the metaverse space remain disproportionately reserved for men.

“The research shows that women are more likely than men to engage in hybrid use cases in the metaverse, traversing both physical and digital worlds to participate in gaming, fitness, education, live events, and shopping via AR/VR technologies,” says Hackl. 

“By contrast, men use the metaverse to participate in purely digital experiences such as gaming, trading nonfungible tokens (NFTs), and attending social events.”

For Hackl, bringing women into technology results in more creative solutions and has more significant potential for innovations that meet women’s needs and promote gender equality. But their lack of inclusion comes with massive costs. 

“Suppose women cannot access the Internet and do not feel safe online. In that case, they cannot develop the necessary digital skills to engage in digital spaces, which diminishes their opportunities to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) related fields. By 2050, 75% of jobs will be connected to STEM areas. Yet today, women hold just 22% of positions in artificial intelligence”

But Hackl feels the Web3 world is ready for change. “My message is always to be bold, speak your mind, and settle for more. The world needs your essence, work, art, creativity, femininity, intuition, and heart to make the Web3 industry. There will always be obstacles, but there is a vast community to mentor, support and stand by you to continue exploring, building, and creating in the Web3 industry.”
NEAR Foundation and Eigen Labs Partner to Enable Faster, Cheaper Web3 Transactions for Ethereum Rollups via EigenLayer
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 10, 2023
EigenLabs, one of the leaders in building scaling solutions on Ethereum, is partnering with the NEAR Foundation to create an industry first partnership designed to foster faster, cheaper transactions for Layer 2 projects building on Ethereum. 

Ethereum rollups, projects that perform transaction execution outside of the main Ethereum blockchain, have been one of the fastest growing sectors on the world’s largest blockchain. However, they have consistently faced challenges around finality and cost, making them an expensive option for developers looking to build on Ethereum. With the partnership with the NEAR Blockchain and NEAR Foundation, those roadblocks disappear. 

The world’s first ‘fast finality layer’ for Ethereum layer 2s
The partnership, which will have the two teams build the world’s first “fast finality layer” for Ethereum layer 2s, will see transaction times shrink from minutes and hours to 3-4 seconds. The cost of transacting on this new finality layer will become 4,000 times cheaper than it is currently, creating the perfect conditions for teams looking to scale on Ethereum. 

This advancement will reduce liquidity fragmentation between Layer-2s through increased efficiency while also allowing them to make individual decisions around the sequencers they use to process those transactions, either on-chain or off-chain. The fast finality layer retains all Ethereum security guarantees while adding both NEAR and EigenLayer guarantees, making it an attractive option for any team building on Ethereum L2s.

“We are thrilled to partner with the highly innovative team behind the NEAR protocol,” says Sreeram Kannan, founder of EigenLabs. “This is a mutually beneficial partnership that will leverage both NEAR and EigenLayer’s technologies to make it easier, faster, and cheaper for developers to build on Ethereum.”

Making the Open Web more usable 
The collaboration, spearheaded by Pagoda, the NEAR ecosystem development team, will help transition the NEAR-Ethereum Rainbow Bridge to an actively validated service (AVS). 

“Pagoda is proud to work with Eigen Labs, a world-class team, to cobuild the fast finality layer. This solution improves the composability with Ethereum L2s and reduces liquidity fragmentation within the rollup ecosystem,” says Bowen Wang, Director of Protocol at Pagoda.

The partnership will not only help projects building on Ethereum, but NEAR too, create a better bridging experience between NEAR and Ethereum, allowing transactions to reach finality faster, with stronger security guarantees and decentralization. 

“NEAR Foundation is proud to partner with such an excellent team as Eigen Labs to offer a fast finality layer for ETH rollups,” says Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol. 

“The fast finality layer showcases the strengths of NEAR’s technology while making the Open Web more usable, which has always been the core goal for NEAR. It will also help defragment liquidity for Ethereum rollups and make all of Web3 more interoperable as a result.” 

The NEAR Foundation’s mission is to help usher in the dawn of the open web, a radically new form of Web3 where infrastructure, application protocols, and access is open to anyone, anywhere. Facilitating the development of Ethereum by creating a pathway to fast, low-cost, and scalable infrastructure is one the many ways NEAR is helping bring about this radical shift in how the internet works. 

A testnet is expected to launch in Q1 2024, and more details will be shared around that time. 
NEAR Day at ETHDenver: Ethereum Without Limits
COMMUNITY
January 20, 2023
ETHDenver is once again upon us. NEAR will be there with a full schedule of talks, panels, bounties, after parties, and more, exploring why NEAR is the place where mainstream adoption of the Open Web will happen. 

NEAR makes building and innovating on Web3 simple, secure, and scalable — all well before “The Merge”. Soon, anyone in the world—devs, founders, creators, and app users — will be able to create without limits. Join us on March 2nd for NEAR Day at ETHDenver — a 1-day mini summit on all things NEAR. From March 3rd to March 5th, join NEAR at ETHDenver for the Main Event and Hackathon.

Registering for NEAR Day is free. Sign up for a spot via the link below to meet people from the NEAR community and join the hackathon! To join NEAR Day at ETHDenver, you will also need an ETHDenver pass.

Why NEAR @ ETH Denver? 
With the Aurora EVM and Rainbow Bridge, the NEAR ecosystem is basically “Ethereum without limits”. While NEAR will be in attendance to help foster a decentralized multi-chain future, NEAR is showcasing why it’s the platform of choice for Web3 builders and onboarding the masses into the Open Web.

Register for NEAR Day at ETHDenver
Builders, creators, and entrepreneurs will find us at NEAR Day, a 1-day mini summit on ETHDenver’s Main Stage of the National Western Complex on March 2nd. From March 3rd – March 5th, find the NEAR ecosystem booth during ETHDenver and mingle with NEAR Devs, Community members, and others from the ecosystem.

To participate at NEAR Day, all you need to do is register via the link below and have an ETHDenver pass. ETHDenver is a free event. Register now to secure your spot and find out why NEAR is the easiest, most accessible, and scalable blockchain in Web3. Stay tuned for more details!

Register for NEAR Day
For the full schedule and information about NEAR Day at ETHDenver  as well as #BUIDLWEEK and Main Event, please visit our event page. Check out ETHDenver’s full schedule to learn more about featured NEAR sessions and more. 

Join the Hackathon
Join ETHDenver’s Hackathon and build on NEAR. Members of NEAR Foundation, Aurora, and other projects will be on-site to help onboard devs, creators, and entrepreneurs into NEAR and advise on building dApps. 

Building on NEAR is easy and fun, and you’ll instantly be part of a vibrant and supportive community. Let’s get you started!

Register for Hackathon
Notable Speakers at NEAR Day and ETHDenver
Catch a number of exciting NEAR speakers and sessions at NEAR Day and ETHDenver. The final list of participants and sessions is still being solidified. However, we do have some speakers to highlight. 

Illia Polusukhin – NEAR Co-founder, CEO of NEAR
Marieke Flament – CEO of NEAR Foundation
Alex Shevchenko – CEO of Aurora Labs
Alex Skidanov – NEAR Co-founder
Polina Aladina – OnMachina Co-Founder
Learn about our other speakers at the NEAR Day event page.
NEAR’s January Town Hall Recap
COMMUNITY
January 28, 2022
The last 12 months was an incredible year for the NEAR community. The ecosystem grew at a phenomenal clip, bringing in new developers, projects and users. The NEAR Protocol was also successfully upgraded to Phase 0 of Simple Nightshade, making the blockchain faster and more robust, while keeping it carbon neutral. 

On January 20, NEAR Foundation kicked off the new year with its first Town Hall of 2022. Users and developers from all over the world tuned in. From Korea and Africa to Belarus, Thailand, and Turkey, the NEAR community mirrored the ecosystem’s rapidly growing global reach and influence. 

In case you missed the NEAR’s January Town Hall, here’s a roundup. 

An ode to the ecosystem
“At NEAR, we believe in a world where people can control their assets, their data, and their power of governance,” said Marieke Flament, NEAR Foundation’s CEO. “We believe that is key to creating an Open Web world. A world where everyone can engage and participate; a world where new business models can be created, and where creators, developers, and users can be better rewarded.”

That vision is not only shared by everyone at NEAR, but the wider community, too. That’s why this month’s town hall was all about championing the voices and ideas from the wider ecosystem. 

Team members from the Open Forest Protocol and Sankore took center stage to discuss their progress and why they chose to build on NEAR. 

Sankore: Scaling Education in Africa 
Sankore Guild Lead and CEO Kevin Imani spoke about the dapp’s national and regional efforts. Imani detailed Sankore’s three-pronged approach in Kenya and East Africa: developer training, talent scouting, and project scouting. 

“We want to implement training centers around East Africa where we can have developers certified to develop on NEAR Protocol,” said Imani. He went on to explain Sankore’s ambitious goal of building a network of monthly NEAR Meet events each month in the region, while actively recruiting people and projects to build on NEAR. 

Several Town Hall participants were understandably enthusiastic about Sankore’s mission to bring NEAR to new audiences in Africa. 

“​Really awesome to see NEAR not only advanced industrial nations but especially developing countries,” said Town Hall participant Markus Koch, while user wolfwoodphreak commented, “Love Sankore! Hopefully, one day both Sankore and OFP will join forces to bring NEAR and the GREEN to [the] Cradle of Civilization!” 

Or as Magnus Dikese rather succinctly put it: “Africa is NEAR!” 

Reimagining Finance with Open Forest Protocol 
Open Forest Protocol, a carbon offsetting project NEAR Foundation recently profiled, makes forest monitoring and carbon financing transparent, scalable, and open-source. 

Open Forest Protocol’s Ozymandius (4ntsGuild) and Aureline Grange provided updates on their goal of creating the foundation of  an “inclusive, nature-based economy.” As Ozymandias said in his opening remarks, OFP is a project focused on bringing Regenerative Finance to NEAR. 

“ReFi is right at the intersection of climate and crypto,” said Ozymandias. “What we’re aspiring to build with the Open Forest Protocol is an open-source forest management system for on-chain carbon accreditation and a fully on-chain carbon economy.” 

“We just started onboarding forestation projects and validators at the end of last year,” said Aureline Grange. “In November, [OFP CEO] Fred [Fournier] went to COP26 and had very interesting discussions with countries, including Kenya, Ivory Coast, Malawi, and Panama. These countries are interested in using OFP at the national level to monitor their forests, and this is super huge for OFP and the planet as we scale trust and monitoring.”

OFP currently has 15 pilot projects and 14 global validators. And even though OFP has just started fundraising, the project currently has over $4 million in funds. As one Town Hall participant and OFP fan said, 2022 could indeed be the year of ReFi and OFP.

To get the full updates from OFP and Sankore, watch NEAR’s January Town Hall. 

Illia on MetaBUILD 2 and What’s Next for NEAR Inc. 
It wouldn’t be a Town Hall without NEAR Inc. co-founder Illia Polosukhin’s protocol updates and a roadmap for 2022. 

As Illia noted, there are plans to increase the number of validator slots on the NEAR network to more than 400—a number that will continue scaling with the number of shards. He also explored “dynamic resharding” a radical new approach to blockchain design that allows the NEAR network to automatically adjust how many shards it uses to handle busy, and quiet periods more efficiently. 

Also on Illia’s Town Hall agenda notes was the NEAR MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon, which launched in December 2021 and runs until February 10. In MetaBUILD 2, developers are working on various projects to build NEAR, Web3, and Metaverse projects. 

“We’ve had over 2,100 people sign up, which is pretty amazing,” said Illia. “There are $1 million in prizes and there are 35 partner challenges” from Aurora, Brave, The Graph, Mintbase, Paras, and more. 

There are 21 days left to submit a project, so check out the MetaBUILD homepage for hackathon details. And if you want to dive deeper into NEAR, join the NEAR Discord. 

Share Your Thoughts on the Town Hall
We’d love to hear your thoughts about the ecosystem and community, so head over to the January Town Hall Reddit thread, where NEAR team members will answer all of your questions! 

In the upcoming NEAR Town Hall in February, the NEAR Foundation will detail its efforts to massively scale its global expansion through regional hubs. Make sure to register for the next NEAR Town Hall on February 24th to hear all about it!
Armored Kingdom Launches New SciFi-Fantasy Media Platform on NEAR
COMMUNITY
June 10, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a major new entertainment franchise. Armored Kingdom, a new multi-platform, global entertainment universe, is coming to NEAR to reshape Web3 trading card games, digital comics, animation, and film. 

Armored Kingdom’s founders include actress, producer, and Web3 innovator Mila Kunis, superhero creator Sharad Devarajan, Lindsey McInerney, and Lisa Sterbakov. As envisioned by creator Hugh Sterbakov and writer/game designer Brian Turner, Armored Kingdom is an immersive blend of media franchise with science fiction and fantasy worldbuilding. It will also be a place for fans to interact with creators and each other. 

The launch of Armored Kingdom includes a limited edition free NFT comic mint, available for only 7 days. It will precede Armored Kingdom’s first official collection—a five-issue series of digital and physical comics.

NEAR’s fast, carbon neutral, and infinitely scalable protocol were major factors in the Armored Kingdom founders’ decision to launch on the platform. 

World-building in Armored Kingdom
Armored Kingdom follows several tribes of warring medieval dynasties as they battle for power with the aid of Armorite, a powerful and mysterious metal. No one has been able to mine Armorite except the Ancestors, a long-vanished, highly advanced civilization. 

The magical weapons the Ancestors forged are now scattered across the lands of Armoria. As dynasties unearth new artifacts, the balance of power shifts. And as the war rages on, a greater threat lurks in the shadows.

“The mythology of Armored Kingdom chronicled in the digital comics will be further explored in the trading card game, which will be phase two for the franchise,” says McInerney. “Carefully marrying the narrative and gameplay, and using both to further explore the world, will keep the storyline evergreen and ever-developing—and above all else, fun.”

An avid TCG/MMO gamer, Kunis has previously launched a number of projects in the Web3 animation space. But Armored Kingdom is Kunis’ first official foray into comics and gaming.

“I lost a good part of my youth to gaming, from World of WarCraft to Settlers of Catan,” says Kunis. “The moment I dove into Web3, I  saw the opportunity to create an immersive universe where blockchain technology deepens the gaming experience and makes it more personal and immersive for every fan. Armored Kingdom will allow gamers to relate to their characters and gear in a revolutionary way, and we can’t wait to share more of that with you very soon.” 

“This is a dream project for us. Armored Kingdom has all the elements of a great fantasy meets sci-fi story that will take a global audience into a place of wonder,” says Devarajan, Founder of Graphic India, one of Asia’s leading comics, animation and creative studios. “This new storytelling experience will push Web3 technology further than ever before.”
“[We] turned to NEAR to help us make it a reality,” Devarajan adds. “Their expertise with community management, championing of the creative sector, and its carbon-neutral, user-friendly development platform won us over.” 

Shaping the future of Web3 storytelling on NEAR
Alongside Paras Comic, OP Games, and other NEAR gaming platforms, Armored Kingdom is set to help shape the future of Web3 storytelling. Not only on NEAR but also across the wider Open Web world. 

“We are excited to support the launch of Armored Kingdom and the storytelling opportunities it will bring to fans,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. 

“NEAR is a perfect blockchain for an entertainment franchise as it can support various platforms, which is crucial for multiverse experiences across different mediums,” she adds. “Our focus on ease of use also allows developers to deliver intuitive experiences for a large fan base.”
Announcing NEAR Validator Advisory Board
COMMUNITY
August 6, 2020
With MainNet Restricted quickly approaching, NEAR is onboarding additional validators to its Advisory Board. This board is run by a selected group of professional validators who, over time, become the key voices in the technical governance of NEAR Protocol. 

We are glad to announce the following members of NEAR Validator’s Advisory Board (NVAB), leading organizations in the upcoming MainNet Restricted launch:

Bison Trails
Buildlinks
Certus One
Cryptium Labs
Dokia Capital
DSRV Labs
Figment Networks
Hashquark
Huobi Pool
Sparkpool
Staked
Stake.fish
OKEx Pool
Zero Knowledge Validator
These validators are actively participating in group discussions and new releases testing, to solve technical challenges and co-organize the final transition of the network into the Community Governed phase. More information on the roadmap can be found here.

Furthermore, the NVAB is helping NEAR to develop its Smart Contract based delegation for the staking of NEAR tokens, a key innovation among PoS blockchain protocols. 

How Smart Contract Based Delegation Enables More Open Finance Use Cases
One of the key features that NEAR offers which differentiates it from many Proof-of-Stake networks is contract-based delegation. 

Other protocols typically implement delegation at the protocol level, meaning that it is exactly the same across all validators. Validators generally compete with each other purely based on what price they offer — for example, if the protocol is providing a 5% reward for validation, these validators may provide 4% of that as return to people who delegate to them and keep the 1% for themselves. This generally results in a price war where the only differentiation between validators is what return they offer and reputational factors like how many people already delegate to them. Also, custodial centralized exchanges frequently take a large fraction of the delegation market as they allow to offer additional financial instruments that regular validators can’t.

Because delegation in NEAR is done through smart contracts, it is far more flexible. Each validator could theoretically produce its own delegation contract or configure the parameters of a widely trusted contract to offer a broad range of services. For example, one validator might offer delegators a better return if they lock up their capital for a long period of time while another might offer better returns for larger size delegations. 

This contract-based delegation makes it easier to pipe together Open Finance components, so you can imagine contracts which dynamically allocate delegators’ funds to lending protocols or validators depending on the prevailing interest rates and return in the market. Essentially, staking becomes a core component of the Open Finance ecosystem while still providing security to the system as intended.

How You Can Get Involved

We have something for everyone:

Join the NEAR Contributor Program to contribute to our engineering efforts.
You love hosting events, engaging communities, and creating content? Then head over to our Guild Program.
If you are in the process of setting up your own start-up in the Web3 space, the Open Web Collective will provide guidance.
If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, join the conversation on Discord, and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox


Software Eating Financial Contracts
CASE STUDIES
September 24, 2018
Summary: Programmable Money is a multi-trillion dollar opportunity for blockchain enabled businesses. The first original use case of programmable money was the creation of ICOs, that led to a frenzy of 2017. This post will cover three additional use cases that will be also re-imagined by blockchain and smart contracts:

Derivative Trading: ~$13 trillion markets today, which is dominated by large centralized exchanges. This market will transform in a two-step process: a) market will move into centralized derivative exchanges that trade baskets of crypto, futures contracts and options b) decentralized derivatives exchanges will take the place of a fraction of centralized derivative crypto exchanges. Smart contracts will match traders, hold user funds and settle contracts, but in addition, provide liquidity for such an exchange.
Lending: ~$13 trillion markets today, which is controlled by large banks. Specifically, collateralized lending will move into the crypto space first. This might include things like payday loans and purchasing valuable things in the physical world. Smart contracts will validate transactions, verify the legitimacy of counterparties, and perform routine account administration tasks.
Mortgage: ~$10 trillion market today, will become blockchain-enabled on a longer time horizon due to the complexity of the current state of the industry. Consumers in the future will be able to sign up for one platform that will have all participants of the mortgage process on it: lawyers, realtors, appraisers, bankers, mortgage brokers, home buyer, and home seller. The smart contract will hold the funds until the required documents are collected and signed and the loans are approved. Later on, the smart contract will wire the funds to the home seller after the real estate agent helped the buyer locate and choose the property. After a property is purchased and the title transferred to the new house owner, the smart contract will provide custody and money withdrawals
I am a big fan of Programmable Money blog post written by Electric Capital, and especially this part: “analysis often conflates Smart Contracts with Distributed Computation, but Smart Contracts should be seen as software “eating” financial contracts that wrap money”.

The first real-world example of a gigantic market being transformed by smart contracts is a fundraising market.

The incumbents in this industry are venture capitalists, angels, and incubators. Last year, VCs poured ~$33bn into startups in the U.S. The challenge with the current model is that companies seek funding need to find their way into venture capitalist’s office, pitch them, negotiate with them, and if successful, sign up for a decade-long relationship that might not work out. Most importantly, the existing financial contracts often give away too much power to the holder of the financial capital, not the creator.

Companies, such as Kickstarter and AngelList opened up the fundraising process for both investors and entrepreneurs, but an even bigger explosion of fundraising happened after, as ICOs raised ~$6bn in 2017 alone.

Underlying ICOs is the smart contract that automatically mints the coin, transfers coins to specific addresses, and maintains coin balances.

Implementing smart contracts allowed creators to easily set up companies, raise funding, and move on into the building and adoption phase of their business.

Now, which financial contracts will software eat next?

Derivatives

Derivatives are used in financial markets to transfer risk. The gross market value of all derivative contracts runs in trillions of dollars (~$13 trillion).

The derivative markets are controlled today by large exchanges (CBOE, CME) that trade large quantities of options and futures contracts on commodities, such as orange juice, coffee, and gold.

The largest derivative dealers are usual suspects, such as Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Citigroup, Barclays, Bank of America Corp, and Morgan Stanley.

The challenge with this market is that a chunk of the transaction cost goes to the centralized entity, who takes on itself the risk and some of the market making function. Also, large chunks of the market are controlled by the above-mentioned players, leading to a centralization of power and value capture in this market.

Blockchain will transform derivative trading via a two-step process. First, we will witness the emergence of multiple centralized exchanges that allow trading derivatives of crypto assets. Secondly, the decentralized derivative exchanges will emerge and take a portion of the market from centralized crypto derivative exchanges.

Eventually, we will have a system where a buyer and seller can have a clearing and settlement of the derivative without trusting a third party. Additionally, we predict that the market power will not be concentrated in a few large derivative traders’ hands either.

Underlying this change will be smart contracts which match traders, hold user funds and settle contracts, but in addition provide liquidity for such an exchange.

Two main advantages of such an exchange would be a resistance to unscrupulous middleman and hacking, but the importantly smart contract will do the parts of the job that currently performed by a centralized derivative exchange (i.e. CME).

There is one more challenge that smart contracts will have to solve. The decentralized model of connecting buyers and sellers functions sub-optimally when there is low liquidity. In other words, market making in such a market is non-trivial.

To assist with liquidity, the smart contract will manage the financial reserves, and instead of having to find a buyer for the orange juice, a user can trade with an external financial reserve, depositing tokens into the reserve and receiving orange juice in return.

I anticipate that it will take several years, if not a decade, to move a fraction of existing market into a derivative crypto exchange, and eventually into a decentralized exchange. It will happen on a much slower timeline than the traditional non-derivative exchanges will transform.

There are blockchain projects targeting the decentralized derivatives exchange use case, such as Variabl.io and EMX.

Lending

U.S. commercial bank loans are also a big market, with the total value of loans at ~$13 trillion.

Large banks dominate the lending industry at the moment. The challenge with such a system is that the incumbents charge high fees for providing a layer of protection, and access to capital is restricted for many people.

In the past decade, we witnessed some Internet-enabled innovation in space, with the rise of peer-to-peer lending platforms, such as Lending Club, Funding Circle, and Prosper Marketplace. The lending space seems to be shifting away from large banks lending money to becoming more of a marketplace lending, with more access to capital for both lenders and those seeking loans.

The next evolution of this market will be a partial transition to blockchain enabled lending, specifically for collateralized assets. Since there is a risk of someone not paying back the loan in a decentralized lending marketplace, loans that can’t be collateralized might not transition to blockchain platforms.

With the use of smart contracts, lenders will be able to validate transactions, verify the legitimacy of counterparties, and perform routine account administration tasks almost instantly.

In the B2B lending space, large financial institutions, such as ING and Credit Suisse, are already exploring the benefits of using blockchain for collateral lending to create a more transparent lending marketplace.

According to the head of IGN’s Wholesale Banking Innovation group, “What’s really different is that it gives the regulator the opportunity to get direct access to the ledger and see the entire digital history of the transaction, from where it originated to its ownership and attributes. In the over-the-counter environment, which is traditionally not that transparent, it could make the entire financial system more resilient.”

Thus, blockchain will end up re-imagining lending for both B2B and B2C markets.

We anticipate that it will take several years, to move existing market into peer-to-peer lending. Additionally, the subsegment that will move into smart contracts and blockchain is strictly collateralized loans, since the loans are protected by the underlying asset. This way, the person taking the loan can’t just disappear: the underlying asset will protect from such an outcome.

BlockFi is one of the vendors that is targeting this consumer market.

Mortgage

Let’s now take a look at a complex example of the borrowing process: mortgage. The total mortgage debt in the U.S. is $9.9 trillion.

The market is dominated by large lenders, such as Quicken Loans, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Freedom Mortgage Corporation and others, who each originate tens of billions of dollars worth of mortgages.

The challenge with the current process of mortgage is that this is a process with various steps involved: you have to go through various steps, such as identity verification, mortgage origination (which has many steps on its own), underwriting, approval, payment, and custody of funds and their timely release, title management, and house insurance, to name a few.

There are a number of startups trying to reform this cumbersome process by putting parts of the process online and aggregating parts of the process onto one platform, Open Door being the well-known startup in this space.

The main advantage of putting the mortgage process onto the blockchain is that it can aggregate the number of services and number of parties involved (lawyers, realtors, appraisers, bankers, mortgage brokers, home buyer, and home seller) into one platform.

It will be beneficial for the consumer seeking the mortgage loan, because now instead of dealing with various parties throughout many weeks or months, the consumer would sign up for just one platform that will have a variety of mortgage providers on it.

The smart contract will hold the funds until the required documents are collected and signed and the loans are approved. Later on, the same smart contract would be able to wire the funds to the home seller after the real estate agent helped the buyer locate and choose the property.

Lastly, after a property is purchased and the title transferred to the new house owner, the monthly payments to the bank begins and could be encoded in the same smart contract for both custody and money withdrawals.

This market will move on a slower timeline than lending and derivatives trading market, due to the complexity involved in the current process of taking a mortgage.

There is also a number of blockchain startups targeting the space, with Harbor, Homelend, and Propy being a few notable examples who approach this space from different angles.

— — —

Our team at Near is working to make these sorts of decentralized financial applications possible on the blockchain.

To follow our progress you can use:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Medium — https://medium.com/nearprotocol,
Telegram — http://t.me/cryptonear
 

https://upscri.be/633436/

 

Thanks to Avichal Garg for feedback on the draft.

Thanks to Bowen Wang & Illia Polosukhin for helping to put together this post.
NEAR Horizon and Outlier Ventures Create Base Camp Accelerator to Propel Web3 Startups
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 11, 2023
NEAR Horizon, NEAR Foundation’s new Web3 startup platform, is joining forces with Outlier Ventures to launch the NEAR Base Camp accelerator program, an initiative aimed at supporting startups building on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (BOS). As a Web3 startup platform, NEAR Horizon aids founders and developers along their journey of building on NEAR with credits, partnerships, services, and additional resources.

Horizon’s goals include redefining the Web3 user experience to onboard one billion users into Web3 and leveraging the Blockchain Operating System to enable developers, communities, enterprises, and users to create a more open web. The 12-week NEAR Base Camp accelerator program offers participants mentorship, education, $100,000 in funding, and $20,000 in service credits on NEAR Horizon.

With NEAR Horizon and Outlier Ventures now teaming up via the Basecamp Accelerator, even more guidance and resources will become available to help NEAR builders, founders, and creators fulfill their ambitions. 

A Web3 launchpad from NEAR Horizon and Outlier Ventures
Outlier Ventures supports a wide array of projects across DeFi, NFTs, blockchain infrastructure, and more, providing tailored mentorship, funding, and strategic guidance to help companies excel in the rapidly evolving Web3 market.

Founded in 2014, Outlier Ventures is a leading global Web3 accelerator, as well as a go-to authority in Web3 for founders, investors, and enterprises alike. Now the most active venture Web3 fund by volume, Outlier has over 200 startups across its Base Camp and Ascent programs.

Raising over $350 million in seed round funding for projects, Outlier has also helped billion dollar Web3 ecosystems like Boson Protocol, Fetch.ai, and Secret Network. Their bespoke programs conducted by a team of experts help projects refine product market fit, token design, and any other aspect critical to project adoption and development. 

Outlier’s venture capital network will also provide an enormous boost to projects and founders participating in the NEAR Base Camp initiative.

The NEAR Horizon and Outlier Ventures collaboration represents a joint commitment to accelerate Web3 startups and foster innovation in the industry. By pooling their resources and expertise, both organizations aim to nurture exceptional talent within the ecosystem, driving Web3 innovation in an open, diverse, and socially impactful manner.

A closer look at the NEAR Base Camp accelerator program illuminates its unique focus and offerings, poised to shape the future of Web3 technology and user experience for startups within the ecosystem.

Fostering Web3 ingenuity with NEAR Base Camp 
The NEAR Base Camp Accelerator Program harnesses the power of visionary founders who aim to scale and enhance usability in the Web3 space. The program centers on development in areas like application infrastructure for scalability, real-world use cases, bridging Web2 and Web3, and AI technology. 

Base Camp offers tailored support for talented early-stage teams with real-world, utility-based use cases. It attracts Web2 users and companies while leveraging Web3 in novel ways to solve problems Web2 is unable to address.

Participants will enjoy added access to the NEAR Horizon platform and $20,000 service credits that can be utilized to cover costs across services like marketing, legal, finance, product development, and more. Horizon is built on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (BOS) and includes 15+ service providers, 40 mentors, and 300+ backers.              

On Base Camp, your Web3 adventure awaits
Founders interested in the NEAR Base Camp accelerator program can apply through Outlier Ventures’ website on the application page and through the NEAR Horizon platform. Applications open on May 11th, with the 12-week program scheduled to commence in mid-July.

Successful teams will receive support from Outlier Ventures and NEAR Ecosystem’s in-house experts on product roadmaps, community building, token economy and launches, fundraising and pitching, governance, and legal support, along with mentorship from industry-leading professionals.

Don’t miss this opportunity to participate in the NEAR Base Camp accelerator program, which aims to foster innovation and growth in the Web3 space. 

Join NEAR Horizon here. Embark on your Web3 journey today by visiting the Outlier Ventures website to express your interest and apply for the Base Camp accelerator program.
NEARCON Returns: Here’s Everything You Need to Know So Far
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 15, 2023
Last year’s NEARCON was epic. NEARCON 2023 will be iconic. 

While all of you have been diligently building NEAR into one of the best ecosystems in the blockchain world, NEAR Foundation has been planning a 4-day journey into an open web. 

Let’s take a quick look at everything we have to share (so far). 

What to expect at NEARCON 2023
For this year’s NEARCON, we’re expanding. There will be two venues — NEARCON HQ and Hack HQ. 

Most of the action will happen at NEARCON HQ. But if you’re a hacker, or just like hanging with them, you can do that at Hack HQ.

At NEARCON, you can expect to:

Join 5,000+ delegates as we explore the power and possibilities of an open web
Encounter a diverse melting pot of creators, builders, policy makers, and more — you’ll even find the rare thought leader in their natural environment
Get inspired by talks from renowned authors, economists, artists, politicians, VCS, developers, entrepreneurs, and more
Explore the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), try it for yourself, and find out why it’s the driving force behind an open web 
Connect with projects, speakers, community members, builders, and multi-chain enthusiasts from around the world
Hack the days and nights away for a chance to build on the BOS and win $180+k   
And experience so much more that you’ll be looking around and asking yourself, “What bear market?” 
Get your early bird tickets now!
NEARCON 2023 tickets are $20 off until July 1. So, don’t wait — snag your ticket for $79 now because after July 1st they are $99. 

NEAR Foundation is also offering another deal. If you refer 4 friends to NEARCON 2023, you will get a special gift upon check-in at the conference. 

Become a Speaker or Sponsor
Thinking about becoming a NEARCON speaker? We’d love to hear from you. 

Speaking spots always go fast, so make haste. Apply to speak at NEARCON here. 

Psstt… we’re looking for technical applications that don’t just shill but highlight problems being solved — on the BOS and the wider open web. 

Apply for the Hackathon and get in for free
NEAR and NEARCON loves its hackers. And to show it, we’ve made it so that any builder or developer who applies for the hackathon gets in for free. 

Find more information about the NEARCON 2023 hackathon here.
NEAR Announces $800 Million in Funding Initiatives To Support Ecosystem Growth
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 25, 2021
The NEAR ecosystem is announcing a monumental $800 million in funding initiatives targeted at accelerating growth. 

The announcement, which includes the $350 million in funding announced by Proximity Labs last week – reported in Bloomberg – is designed to build on the momentum in the NEAR ecosystem over the last 12 months. 

While NEAR is giving all communities access to this record amount of funding, it will be focusing on Decentralized Finance (DeFi) teams who are actively revolutionizing and reimagining the way we interact with money. 

DeFi projects on NEAR have already hit a significant milestone of more than $150M Total Value Locked (TVL). NEAR has an ambitious goal to grow that number quickly and securely. NEAR is also actively looking for projects focused on NFTs, DAOs, and gaming. 

NEAR’s next chapter is all about fostering growth by helping developers access best-in-class support and providing users with a frictionless experience using and navigating the web3 world. New funding helps accelerate this process.

NEAR levels up 
Of the $800 million in funding, $100 million will be allocated to Startup Grant Pools. More than 20 startups will be identified and given $5M each in funding to redistribute to key stakeholders – the ecosystem ultimately decides who gets funding. 

Some $250 million will be allocated to ecosystem grants helping existing projects further develop and scale. The remaining $100M will be allocated to Regional Funds: money allocated to foster the development of NEAR’s largest community regions in Asia, Europe, and the US.  

Prior to this announcement, NEAR had already spent $45M across more than 120 projects, including Core Protocol Infrastructure Grants to the likes of: 

Textile
Liquality
CronCat 
Kurtosis 
The Grain Programming Language 
The sleeping giant awakes 
NEAR has been building on its roadmap steadily and securely. Later this year, it will launch the next phase sharding, nicknamed Simple Nightshade. NEAR will go from one to four shards, increasing scalability while not compromising on simplicity. Developers won’t have to add any additional code to smart contracts or adjust their platforms and users will continue to experience the same great UX, but at faster speeds. 

Once complete, NEAR will be decentralizing further by lowering the barrier to entry to its validator network, increasing the number of validators first to 100, and then to a few hundred in Q1 2022. As part of this process, there will be further funding to projects helping the rollout and development of NEAR’s sharding technology. 

Stay tuned for more information. 
Architecture of a distributed music streaming application
COMMUNITY
April 10, 2020
In our Reddit/r/NEARProtocol AMA with Audius’s CEO on April 10th, 2020, we will discuss the opportunities for musicians to monetize on blockchain applications better.

Disclaimer: Audius is not built using NEARProtocol. Our discussion is in the spirit of support to our musicians.

Introduction
Right now, most of the profits in the music industry are going to music labels. Musicians are left with 12% of total profits. Historically, music labels have existed for two reasons: music production and music distribution. Both have changed dramatically in recent times. The cost of producing an album was as high as $1m during the 1980s but has been drastically reduced to only $10k per album. As a result, many musicians are choosing the route of DIY publishing which allows them to skip the label. 

Music distribution was usually facilitated via music labels working directly with physical stores and PR to push their music to customers. This dramatically changed with the advent of the Internet, which allows anyone to upload their music. However, the increased accessibility also makes it more difficult for artists to get discovered. Spotify, which provides distribution for labels in the online realm, primarily serves the interest of labels. For every million streams, a band only receives $6,000. Additionally, labels are still in control over what people see since social sharing is limited. 

Can we create a place that serves both as a place to discover new music while at the same time changes the economy behind the content? If yes, where do we start?

Solution
We should be able to provide something valuable to musicians upfront and enable economics for the service later.

For example, a decentralized content platform would allow musicians to share re-used work of other musicians. 

Even though music labels wouldn’t be on board with such a platform, it would provide much value for musicians since it will be the only service of it’s kind on the Internet.

Such a prototype should be able to do the following: 

Store music on decentralized storage nodes
Have a record of all of the listens, likes, shares, and other engagement metrics, so everything is tracked
As the economy is enabled on top of this service later, it will be easy to attribute payouts
Allow people to share the music with each other
Why Blockchain?
The metadata attribution remains safe, verifiable, and immutable due to the decentralization of the network. Blockchain technology ensures that artists get paid safely and instantly as consumers listen to content. Blockchain also allows them to digitize music licenses in the form of a smart contract. 
NEAR Foundation Funding Team Report: September 2022
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 18, 2022
Welcome to the NEAR Foundation Funding Team Report that captures and highlights data for the month of September 2022. The purpose of this document is to provide transparency regarding what happened during the last month in our Funding Team, and is to be shared publicly to the ecosystem and our investor network.

Summary 

1. Grant data

1.2. Approved Grant program data

1.2. Grant highlights

1.3 Completed Projects & Milestone data

1.4 Effectiveness of the funding program

2. External funding in the NEAR Ecosystem

3. Ecosystem highlights

1. Grant data
1.1. Approved Grant Program data
Data reflects projects that have applied for a Grant via the Grants Program and that have been signed by the NEAR Foundation during the month of September (01.09.2022 to 30.09.2022).

 *Note: all applications have been processed.

General Grant data

Applications received*   📥	Grant Agreements  signed  ✅	Conversion rate	Average Grant amount 	Committed amount in dollars 💵
139	25	17%	$78 K	$1.9  M
Grant tracks**

Activation (up to $10 K)	5
Small Builder (up to $25 K)	4
Builder (up to $50 K)	11
Advanced Builder (up to $100 K)	4
Partner ($ ∞)	2
** Please note that our current grant tracks have been updated. For more information please have a look at our updated grant tracks.

Grants per category 

Gaming / Metaverse – 7

Infrastructure / Wallets – 6

NFTs – 4

Other – 4

Social Impact – 2

Institutional / Financial – 2

Grants per country (Top 5)

United States – 8

United Kingdom – 2

Switzerland – 2

Malaysia – 2

Ukraine – 1

1.2. Grant highlights 
This section provides highlights of grants that have been signed during the month.

Gaming / Metaverse projects 

Name	Website	Grant track	Location 
Arcnes	website	Advanced Builder	Poland
Bonuz	website	Advanced Builder	Dubai
Arhead	website	Builder	United Arab Emirates
Bearverse	website	Builder	United States
Gameplace by ZomboDucks	website	Builder	Israel
Joystick	website	Small Builder	Nigeria
Open character creator	website	Activation	United States
Infrastructure / Wallets projects 

Name	Website	Grant track	Location 
OnMachina	website	Partner	United States
Meteor Wallet	website	Builder	Malaysia
Verisoul	website	Builder	United States
near.js – 	/	Small Builder	Ukraine
Java-SDK part 3	website	Small Builder	Switzerland
Tonana Bridge & Connectors	website	Activation	Czech Republic
Institutional / Financial projects 

Name	Website	Grant track	Location 
Defolio	/	Partner	United Kingdom
Near Access	/	Activation	United States
Social Impact projects 

Name	Website	Grant track	Location 
BeeTogether	website	Builder	Switzerland 
GRVTY	website	Builder	United Kingdom
NFT’s projects 

Name	Website	Grant track	Location 
NEAR NFT DAO	website	Builder	United States
Naksh	website	Small Builder	India
3six9 NFT Marketplace	website	Activation	Malaysia
Solar Dex	website	Activation	United States
Other projects 

Name	Website	Grant track	Location 
Three0	website	Builder	United States
NextHollywood	website	Builder	United States
Crowdclass	website	Builder	Portugal
Alpha Leaks	/ 	Activation	Australia
1.3 Completed Projects & Milestone data 
Grant agreements are structured with milestones. Depending on the selected grant track, a grant can have from 1 to 5 milestones. For more information the funding team invites you to explore our milestone guide. 

Projects having completed a milestone  ☑️	61
Projects having completed final milestone ✅	13
Projects completed per category 

Gaming / Metaverse – 1

Infrastructure / Wallets – 5

NFTs – 1

DAOs – 3

Other – 3

Gaming / Metaverse

Alien Esports Industry	website 	Builder	United States
Alien Esports Industry is a  platform to hold esports tournaments with integrated game mechanics that provide unique opportunities to gamers.
Infrastructure / Wallets 

Kuutamo	website	Advanced Builder	Denmark
Kuutamo is building out an enterprise-grade staking node management and reporting system dedicated to support NEAR and NEAR-affiliated networks. Kuutamo will provide practical tooling to enable individuals and organizations to operate secure, honest, and profitable validators in a straightforward way. 
Blockperks	website	Advanced Builder	United Kingdom
Blockperks is building a complete Web3 infrastructure and NFT marketplace for brands, artists, and creators to successfully bridge from Web2 to Web3 with NEAR. Blockperks provides the platform architecture and an adaptive social media dApp so that organizations, clients, and end-users can easily onboard and tokenize assets through the creating and trading of NFT’s. 
Solace Protocol	website	Activation	India
Solace is a program (smart-contract) based non-custodial wallet for NEAR which eases user’s onboarding and enhances security using social recovery, written in Rust.
Emblem Vault	website	Builder	United States
Emblem Vault is an application that collects the value of a portfolio within a token, you can also add non-blockchain assets to the portfolio.
Java SDK – Part 3	website	Small Builder	Switzerland
From the team who delivered the Java-API part 1/2 and that took over the Borshj for maintenance. This time they would like to further enhance the Java API and implement services to create accounts, manage additional reward structure, and call other smart contracts methods.
NFTs

NFT Marketplace for Science IPs	website 	Advanced Builder	United States
NFT Marketplace for Science IPs is building a NFT marketplace for science IPs on top of our data & AI ecosystem platform, for which the project  innovates with smart contracts for best services to scientists worldwide.
DAOs

Deep Skills	website 	Builder	British Virgin Islands
Deep Skills aims to diverse options of how current organizations recruit, educate, and coordinate talented individuals.
Gyde	website 	Builder	United States
Gyde connects users with helping services that they are looking for. The DAO provides incentives via a token to allocate to reviewers on the platform. The DAO also acts as a data provider selling to governments and think tanks driving incentives for power users.
NEAR Alexandria	github 	Builder	Brazil
NEAR Alexandria Is building the largest virtual library for NEAR content and academic content. The team will use metabuilders, meta designers, NEAR DAO council members and academics to build the virtual building, the objects, and the links from all the real books, papers, articles and texts in general that will be in the library.
Other

Vital Point AI	website 	Builder	Canada
Vital Point AI is focused on open-source blockchain development using NEAR Protocol. With a proven record of delivering quality tutorials and dedication to the NEAR ecosystem, helping scale Vital Point Academy will benefit NEAR and the ecosystem in various ways.
Aerx	website 	Builder	Russia
A decentralized modular social network where any user can own their content according to the create2eart principle.
NEAR NYC	website 	Builder	United States
NEAR NYC is a dedicated NEAR community in NYC that will scale NEAR awareness and education by organizing bi-weekly meetups, managing localized social media accounts (Twitter, Telegram, Instagram, Meetup, Eventbrite), establish partnerships with community leaders, and organizing a NEAR NYC hacker house.
1.4 Effectiveness of the funding program  
Total external funding (overall amount) came from projects that have received a grant (around 44%).

2. External funding in the NEAR Ecosystem
This section provides information about external funding in the NEAR ecosystem

12 closed projects in Q3 ‘22 – ($92.2M)
4 finalizing rounds
18 new fundraising processes kicked off 
38 VC intros made
Closed Rounds (September data)
Sender Wallet – Raised a $4.5M private round led by Pantera Capital with participation from Crypto.com, Jump, Amber Group, Woo Network, SevenX Ventures, Shima Capital, and others.
Hillridge – Raised a $2.3M seed round to address climate protection in the agriculture industry with their Insurtech solution building on NEAR.
Closed Rounds (Q3 data)
Portalverse Network – raised a multi-million $ seed round with participation from Big Brain Holdings, 2Moon Capital, and Cogitent Ventures to bring the first decentralized cloud gaming and rendering network to the NEAR ecosystem.
Scorefam – secured a capital commitment of up to $25M from GEM Digital to expand their gaming NFT suite of products.
Token Terminal – raised $6.5M to expand their crypto asset data coverage, which will soon include NEAR Protocol and NEAR ecosystem projects.
Mystiko.Network – raised a $10M round this past month. Mystiko received a grant from NEAR Foundation to support NEAR through their transaction privacy layer.
Sweat Economy – raised $13M in funding including a private token sale, to accelerate their move into Web3.
Niche – closed a $1.8M pre-seed to bring decentralized social media to NEAR.
Aurigami – raised $12M in token rounds earlier this year to continue to grow DeFi on Aurora.
Play Ember – just closed a $1.4M token seed round to bring mobile gaming to NEAR. The team is currently exploring an equity round at this moment as well. 
3. Ecosystem highlights  
NEARWEEK is the one-stop-shop for all NEAR related news. Each weekly newsletter and edition is made possible via news contributions from the NEARWEEK community to the NEWS DAO. Subscribe or visit NEARWEEK.com to get your weekly dose of news from the NEARverse!

For the month of September we invite you to read through the following newsletters : 

Newsletter 74 

Newsletter 75 

Newsletter 76

Newsletter 77 

If you are interested in getting funded : 

explore the NEAR Funding  linktree
visit NF’s website : https://pages.near.org/
contact NF Grants : [email protected] 

How do Randomness Beacons based on Threshold Signatures work?
COMMUNITY
February 25, 2020
Introduction
Back in 2015, DFinity made the community extremely excited with their design of a randomness beacon that was leveraging BLS threshold signatures to produce a randomness output that is both unbiased and unpredictable.

As of 2020 building an unbiased and unpredictable randomness beacon remains extremely challenging, and very few protocols have one live. Threshold signatures are not the only proposed approach, and we previously published a short overview of various other approaches to randomness, including an approach that we considered back then in this blog post. Refer to it for the details on what the randomness beacon is, what it means to be unbiased and unpredictable, and what approaches besides threshold signatures were proposed.

After multiple iterations of design, we ultimately ended up building something very similar to what DFinity uses, and that is a great opportunity to dive deep into how such randomness beacons work.

In this article, we will describe the complex protocol of using threshold signatures to generate random numbers in very simple terms. Let’s dive in!

Crypto Fundamentals
For the purpose of understanding randomness beacons in this article, we will need to understand some very basic cryptography. We need to differentiate between two concepts: scalars, or just regular numbers, which throughout this article we will denote with lowercase letters (e.g. x, y) and elliptic curve points, which we will denote with uppercase letters.

We don’t need to understand much about elliptic curve points, besides a few properties:

Elliptic curve points can be added together, and an elliptic curve point can be multiplied by a scalar (we will denote it as xG, though a notation Gx is also very common). The result of both operations is another elliptic curve point.
Knowing G and xG it is computationally infeasible to derive x.
We will also be using a concept of a polynomial p(x) of degree k-1. For the purposes of this article it is sufficient to think about it as a function p(x) such that if one knows the value of p(x) at any k distinct values of x, they can also derive p(x) at any other x as well.

Interestingly, for the same function, and some elliptic curve point G, if one knows the value of p(x)G at any k distinct values of x, they can also derive p(x)G at any other x.

Those are the only properties of elliptic curve points we will need to understand on the high level how randomness beacons work.

The Randomness Beacon
Say there are n participants, and say we want to require that it takes at least k of them to generate a random number and that an adversary that controls up to k-1 of the participants cannot predict the output of the randomness beacon, and cannot influence it in any way.

Say there exists some polynomial p(x) of degree k-1 such that the first participant knows p(1), the second participant knows p(2), and the n-th participant knows p(n). Also, say that for some agreed-upon elliptic curve point G everybody knows p(x)G for all values of x. We will call p(i) a private share of participant i (because the only participant i knows it), and p(i)G public share of participant i (because everybody knows it). Recall from the previous section that the knowledge of p(i)G is not sufficient to derive p(i).

Generating such a polynomial in a way that each participant knows their private share, but has no insight into the private shares of other participants is the most complex part of the randomness beacon, and is what is called Distributed Key Generation. We will cover it in the next section. For now, let’s assume such a polynomial exists, and all the participants know their shares.

Let’s see how to use it to have a randomness beacon in the context of a blockchain protocol. Say a block with hash h is produced, and the participants collectively want to generate a random number seeded by h. The way they proceed is first to use some agreed-upon function to convert h into an elliptic curve point:

H = scalarToPoint(h)

Then each participant i computes H_i = p(i)H, which they can do because they know p(i) and H. Revealing H_i will not reveal their private share, so the same private shares can be reused for each block, thus the DKG only needs to be performed once.

When at least k participants revealed their shares H_i = p(i)H, everyone can reconstruct any share H_x = p(x)H for any x due to the third property in the previous section. At this point, each participant can locally compute H_0 = p(0)H, and use the hash of it as the randomness beacon output. Note that since no participant knows p(0), the only way to compute p(0)H is to interpolate p(x)H, which is only possible if at least k of p(i)H were revealed. Revealing any smaller number of p(i)H gives no insight into the value of p(0)H.

The beacon above has all the properties we desire: an adversary controlling k-1 or fewer participants cannot get any insight into the final output of the randomness beacon, while any k participants can compute the final output, and any subset of k or more participants will always arrive at the same value.

There is one issue we ignored above. For the interpolation to work, we need to make sure that the value H_i that the i-th participant revealed is indeed equal to p(i)H. Since no other participant knows p(i), they cannot naively verify that H_i is indeed correct, and without some cryptographic proof alongside H_i a malicious actor can reveal arbitrary value, and other participants will have no way of detecting it.

There are at least two ways to provide a cryptographic proof of H_i being correct, we will cover both of the two sections below after we talk about DKG.

Distributed Key Generation
For the randomness beacon in the previous section to work, we needed n participants to collectively come up with a polynomial p(x) of degree k-1 such that each participant i knows the value of p(i), but no other participant has any insight into that value. For the constructions in the next section, it will also be necessary that all the participants know p(x)G for some agreed-upon G and all x.

Throughout this section, we assume that every participant has some private key x_i associated with them, and all the participants know the public key X_i that corresponds to such a private key.

One way to go about DKG is then the following:

Each participant i locally computes some polynomial p_i(x) of degree k-1. They then send p_i(j) to each participant j encrypted with the public key X_j, so that only j-th participant can decode p_i(j). Participant i also publicly announces p_i(j)G for all j from 1 to k inclusive.
All the participants collectively agree on some set of at least k such committed polynomials. Since some participants can be offline, they can’t wait until all n of them commit, but once at least k have committed, they can use any sort of consensus algorithm (for example Tendermint) to agree on some subset Z of at least k polynomials.
The participants collectively verify that the encrypted p_i(j) corresponds to the publicly announced p_i(j)G. The polynomials for which it is not the case are removed from Z.
Each participant j computes their private share p(j) as the sum of p_i(j) for each i in Z. Each participant can also compute each public share p(x)G as the sum of p_i(x)G for each i in Z.
Observe that p(x) is indeed a polynomial of degree k-1, because it is the sum of individual p_i(x), each of which is a polynomial of degree k-1. Then, note that while each participant j knows p(j), they have no insight into the values of other p(x) for x ≠ j. Indeed, to know such a value they’d need to know all p_i(x), and for as long as the participant j doesn’t know at least one of the committed polynomials, they don’t have any information about p(x).

This constitutes the entirety of the DKG process. Steps 1, 2 and 4 above are relatively straightforward. Step 3 is where DKG gets tricky.

Specifically, we need some way to prove that each encrypted p_i(j) indeed corresponds to the publicly broadcasted p_i(j)G. Without a way to verify it, an adversary i can send some gibberish information to participant j instead of actually encrypted p_i(j), and participant j will have no way to compute their private share later.

There’s a way to create a cryptographic proof of the correctness of the encrypted share. However, the size of such a proof is prohibitively large, and given that O(nk) such proofs need to be published, the size of the proof becomes a bottleneck.

Instead of proving cryptographically that p_i(j) corresponds to p_i(j)G in NEAR we instead allocate a lot of time during DKG between the moment the set of polynomials is agreed upon and the moment the final shares are aggregated, during which each participant can provide a cryptographic proof that the encrypted share p_i(j) sent to them doesn’t correspond to the publicly broadcasted p_i(j)G. It makes an assumption that each participant will go online at least once during that time frame (which spans approximately half a day), and that the challenge they submit will make it to the blockchain. In the case of block producers, both assumptions are rather realistic, since the block producers are expected to remain online throughout the epoch, and for a message to be censored majority of block producers need to collude and not include it in their blocks, in which case they have significantly more profitable ways to attack the system.

If a particular block producer does receive an invalid share and then fails to show up during DKG and challenge it, they will not be able to participate in generating random numbers during the same epoch. Note that for as long as k other honest participants have their shares (by either not receiving any invalid shares, or challenging all the invalid shares in time), the protocol will still function.

Proofs
The last part of the randomness beacon that is still left uncovered is how one can prove that a published value H_i is equal to p(i)H without revealing p(i).

Recall that the values H, G, p(i)G are all known to everybody. The operation that computes p(i) given p(i)G and G is called discrete logarithm, or dlog for short, and what each participant wants to prove to others is that

dlog(p(i)G, G) = dlog(H_i, H)

Without revealing p(i). Constructions for such proof do exist, one such construction is called Schnorr Protocol.

With such a construction, whenever a participant submits H_i, they also submit proof of correctness of H_i.

Recall that the final randomness beacon output is the interpolated value of H_0. What information needs to be distributed along with H_0 for external participants that didn’t participate in the generation of it to be able to verify its correctness? Since everybody can locally interpolate G_0, a proof that

dlog(G_0, G) = dlog(H_0, H)

would suffice, but we cannot use the Schnorr Protocol to create such a proof since it requires the knowledge of p(0), and the randomness beacon relies on nobody knowing the value. Thus, one needs to keep all the values of H_i along with the corresponding proofs to prove the correctness of H_0 to external observers.

However, if there was some operation that semantically resembled multiplication on elliptic curve points, proving that H_0 was computed correctly would become trivial, by just verifying that

H_0 × G = G_0 × H

If the chosen elliptic curve supports so-called elliptic curve pairings, such a proof becomes possible. In such a case H_0 not only serves as an output of the randomness beacon that can be trivially verified by anyone who knows G, H and G_0 but also it serves as a collective multi-signature that attests that at least k out of n block producer signed the block.

We do not use elliptic curve pairings in NEAR today, though we might use them in the future, and then the neat trick discussed above would replace the individual signatures we use today. DFinity, on the other hand, uses BLS signatures and can leverage the pairings to make such multi signatures work.

Outro
The implementation of the randomness beacon is mostly complete in our reference client implementation (see this commit), however, the first version of the NEAR Protocol will likely launch without it, to allow more time for stabilization of the beacon. Once it is shipped, however, all the contracts on NEAR will enjoy access to unbiasable and unpredictable random number generator, which enables many uses cases not possible today on other networks.

The first release of the NEAR Protocol will use a significantly simpler randomness beacon (see this pull request), where the random value is just the output of a verifiable random function on the previous output of the random beacon by the current block producer. Such a randomness beacon is unpredictable, but is not unbiasable: the current block producer has one bit of influence because they can choose not to produce a block. It happens to be very similar to the randomness beacon that Ethereum 2.0 will use before they have the VDFs beacon available (the randomness output is the VRF by the current block producer on the epoch hash), and is also the way the randomness beacon works in Elrond.

If you are interested in how blockchain protocols work, check out our Whiteboard Series with NEAR, in which we talk to the founders and core developers of other protocols, such as Ethereum Serenity, Cosmos, Polkadot and many others, and dive deep into the details of their technology. All the video episodes are conveniently assembled into a playlist here.

NEAR Protocol is an infrastructure for the open web and a sharded blockchain protocol. You can learn more about our technology in our sharding design paper, through deep-dive videos, or by exploring our Rust reference client implementation.

Follow @NEARprotocol on Twitter to get notified about new content we post and get the latest updates on the development of the protocol

If you want to get involved, please join the conversation here!
NEAR Powers Voting for the Djooky Music Awards
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 4, 2023
The world of music and the blockchain is about to get a lot more exciting and promising thanks to Djooky and NEAR. The ongoing Djooky Music Awards (DMA) for undiscovered artists will feature on-chain voting mechanisms powered by NEAR, allowing artists to vie for funding and recognition, while voters compete for cash prizes.

For upcoming independent artists, Djooky serves as a streaming and discovery tool that links them to fans and industry insiders. Artists can also use the platform’s virtual marketplace, DjookyX, to receive funding by fractionalizing rights to future song royalties. Bringing DMA voting to NEAR will bring further engagement and innovation between musicians and fans.

That means voting for DMA finals will be completely on-chain using NEAR, with weekly prizes being distributed in the form of NEAR tokens. Artists simply need to create a NEAR wallet to claim their prizes. In addition, any users trying to predict the next big hit with HitHunder will need a NEAR wallet to receive token rewards if their song strikes gold.

How the DMAs empower both artists and fans
The DMAs were introduced in 2020 by Djooky co-founders Andrey Dakhovskyy and Brian Malouf as a way to help fans discover new artists and aid musicians in gaining visibility. The competition runs year-round, resetting every quarter with new awards and prizes. The DMAs run tournament style, with artists competing brack-style on the national, continental, and finally global level.

In the event that a contestant makes it to the finals, their music will be featured on an 18-song NFT album, the sales of which will be divided equally among the lowest 15 projects. If their song is selected as one of the top three songs, it will have its own NFT auction with bonus artwork created by a digital artist. Djooky also provides a platform to help artists reach a global audience, even if their song doesn’t end up topping the charts.

Additionally, Djooky runs weekly HitHunter competitions where users vie with one another to identify the next likely hit song by assigning HitPoints to songs they like. Users receive 100 Hitpoints every Monday, which they can then spend on the tracks they believe will be the biggest hits. HitHunters are ranked according to how early they allocate their HPs to tracks that become hits in the Djooky charts when compared to other HitHunters.

Users allocate their Hit Points to the songs which they identify as potential hits. And depending on the progress of the songs chosen, users receive winning points calculated by the platform’s algorithm. The top five users of the special user charts will be rewarded with get cash prizes for backing the right tunes.

NEAR x DMAs fueling a new future for musicians
The Djooky team and NEAR Foundation previously collaborated to develop DjookyX, their music marketplace that’s presently transitioning from Web2 to Web3. The DMAs and DjookyX demonstrate new economic models for fans and musicians in Web3, all made possible by technology and governance mechanisms of the NEAR blockchain.

As the DMAs and DjookyX marketplace grow, so will opportunities for musicians to earn more for their creative energy, and for fans to truly support undiscovered musicians they love.


NEAR Foundation Transparency Report : Q3 2022
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 20, 2022
In this second NEAR Foundation Transparency Report covering Q3 of 2022, the Foundation aims to deliver on its commitment to  consistent and frequent communication with the NEAR community. 

This transparency report is one of NEAR Foundation’s vital contributions to the NEAR ecosystem’s long-term health and viability.

NEAR Foundation Mission and Purpose
NEAR’s mission is to:

Remove every barrier for Web3 creators, by creating an ecosystem that is uniquely simple, safe, scalable, and sustainable.

The Foundation’s purpose is the promotion and development of new technologies and applications, especially in the fields of open and decentralized software architectures, to enable innovation that benefits people around the world. This includes but is not limited to promoting and developing NEAR Protocol and related technologies, as well as promoting and supporting decentralized applications running on the NEAR Protocol.

To deliver on its purpose, the Foundation is organized around 3 core areas of focus: awareness, support, and governance.

Below, the Foundation shares details of how it allocated funding in Q3 of 2022. This includes the rationale informing these decisions as well as insight into future plans as the ecosystem heads into 2023 and beyond.

Core Metrics
The number of accounts on the NEAR Protocol grew from 15.6 million at the end of Q2 to over 20.6 million accounts at the end of Q3. 
Weekly Active Wallets surged to 280k per week — up from 26k at the end of Q2.
The number of weekly active developers held flat at 1.1k during this period.
Total and Circulating Supply
As of the end of Q3, NEAR’s total supply increased to 1.1b NEAR. This is up 14m compared to  the end of Q2 due to inflation and fewer transaction fees burned. 

90% of the 5% annual inflation is sent to Validators to be paid out as staking rewards, with the residual 10% returned to the NEAR Foundation Treasury.

Circulating supply increased 74m NEAR to 798m (73% of total supply) due to further unlocks in both the NEAR Foundation Treasury and contractual vesting schedules.

Ecosystem Holdings
At the end of Q3, 67% of total supply had been deployed to projects, partners, contributors, backers, and the broader ecosystem.

465m NEAR had been staked (42% of total supply), representing 62% of all NEAR owned by the ecosystem.

126 validators supported the network, with 33% of total staked NEAR delegated to the 9 largest validators.

The NEAR Foundation Treasury
At the end of Q3, NEAR Foundation held fiat reserves of $450m and 358m NEAR. 

The Foundation has continued to adopt a highly responsible approach to treasury management in order to minimize the risk of loss in a turbulent market. Exposure to non-NEAR assets therefore has been limited, with fiat reserves held in AAA-rated Swiss  bank accounts. This strategy helps ensure that the Foundation maintains sufficient resources and runway even if the market downturn lasts for multiple years.. 

As a result, the Foundation is in an extremely strong position to continue to distribute funds to high-quality projects for the foreseeable future.

The NEAR Foundation in Q3
During Q3, NEAR Foundation continued to support high quality projects that will support our mission to onboard 1 billion users.

In total, the Foundation committed $39M during Q3, further contributing to our Q1’21 commitment of  an $800 million ecosystem fund. 

The $800m ecosystem fund is split into four broad groups:

$350M – Proximity DeFi Grants – to help projects in the space of financial innovation within the NEAR ecosystem. (Proximity will be publishing its own transparency report on December 21, 2022.) 
$100M – Startup Funds – to decentralize capital deployment into dedicated investment funds within the ecosystem.
$250M – Foundation Grants – to support projects building on NEAR through direct investment and grants.
$100M – Regional Funds – to establish physical hubs in key regions around the world to provide a local presence. 
Funds Distributed So Far from $800m Ecosystem Fund (to Partners):

Category	Announcement	Q3 Commitments	Total Committed
Proximity DeFi Grants	$350m		$350m
Foundation Grants	$250m	$26m	$159m
Startup Funds	$100m	$10m	$28m
Regional Hubs	$100m	$3m	$36m
Total Ecosystem Fund	$800m	$39m	$573m
Charity & Education		$0m	$6m
Total Capital Deployed		$39m	$579m
Below, the Foundation shares details of how it allocated funding as of Q3 of 2022. This includes both the rationale for these decisions and insight into future plans.

Startup Funds
Allocation: $100 million 

Committed: $28 million

Committed in Q3: $10 million 

NEAR Foundation believes that it should not be the sole distributor of capital to developers and entrepreneurs within the NEAR ecosystem. As necessary as the Foundation is to NEAR’s growth, decisions should not be made in a vacuum through a single centralized organization. 

To help decentralize NEAR, the Foundation has in turn decentralized capital deployment. The Foundation has allocated grant funds to MetaWeb, MOVE Capital, Stealth Capital, and Open Web Collective, each of which is focused on funding projects within the NEAR ecosystem according to their own vision. 

So far, the Foundation has committed $28 million to the existing funds. Specific updates from each fund are listed below:

MetaWeb, a NEAR-native investment fund, has raised $30m from Sequoia, in addition to NF. MetaWeb has deployed over $11m across 36 investments to date, including Niche, Orderly, Above.Land, and Sender Wallet.
MOVE Capital is a NEAR-native investment fund that has raised $13m from Accomplice and DCG, in addition to NF. MOVE has made 20 investments to date totalling over $7m, including Tonic, Calimero, Few & Far, and Sweatcoin.
Stealth Capital is an investment fund for founders, and brings a wealth of experience supporting the development of projects on Solana and Polygon, as well as NEAR. Stealth had deployed $6m by the end of Q3.
Open Web Collective is a blockchain accelerator and investor backing the builders of the multi-chain, decentralized web. Open Web Collective’s approach to supporting founders is hands-on, user-centric, and analytical.​
Foundation Grants 
Allocation: $250 million 

Committed: $159 million

Committed in Q3: $26 million 

Foundation Grants cover a broad range of investments from grant allocation to direct investment. Grants are primarily focused on the following verticals: Infrastructure & Integrations, Gaming & Entertainment, NFTs, and DAOs.

The Foundation has specific strategies for each vertical and has deployed capital across all of them.

Infrastructure and Integrations – “Infrastructure” is a catch-all term for key ecosystem partnerships, integrations, and technologies that support access to mainnet and successful development on NEAR. These key components include: frictionless onboarding solutions, wallets, bridges, oracles, custodians, zero-knowledge technologies, privacy tools, and improved tooling for developers. Integrations with the NEAR network are laying the groundwork for the next phase of the community’s growth, which is bringing more users from Web2 into Web3 — what the Foundation calls Web 2.5. The following partnerships have been instrumental in making progress towards this initiative.
Key projects:Aurora, Pagoda, Calimero, Switchboard, Octopus, Brave, Coinbase, BitGo, Fireblocks, USDT, USDC, Token Terminal, OnMachina, Keypom
Gaming / Entertainment – The Web3 gaming space is still wide open and rapidly evolving. The first wave of Web3 games proved that there was consumer demand for blockchain-based gaming. Right now, there is a great deal of room for experimentation, iterating on long-term sustainable models, introducing permissionless composability, and creating new forms of NFTs as well as games that are partially or even fully on-chain.
Key projects:Armored Kingdom, SWEAT, Endlesss, Niche, playEmber, eFuse
NFTs –  NFTs on NEAR present a massive opportunity, in which NEAR’s flexible infrastructure and focus on usability are ideal for many NFT use cases, especially those focused on utility. With its strong position in the Web3 space, NEAR has the potential to become a leader in fostering sustainable and innovative NFT use cases that provide lasting value for all participants.
Key projects:Few & Far,Paras, Mintbase, Satori, Apollo42, Tradeport, Bee NFT/Beexperience, Tamago
DAOs – The Foundation believes NEAR has the strongest no-code, easy to use DAO tech stack in Web3 and sees DAOs as key enablers of decentralization. NEAR is helping communities govern their treasuries and activities in a completely decentralized way, with the help of our DAO stack.  We will continue to facilitate DAO use cases in investments, NFTs, gaming, sustainability, science, and beyond.
Key projects:AstroDAO, SailGP, Unchain Fund , Flamingo DAO, Breeder DAO
In Q3, NEAR Foundation distributed a further $26 million to over 100 projects, including Mintbase, Circle, Satori, Clear Street, and OnMachina, as well as to Caerus to set up an Entertainment Venture Studio.

Regional Hubs 
Allocation: $100 million 

Committed: $36 million 

Committed in Q3: $3m – Banyan (US Hub), Balkans 

As part of NEAR’s goal of  reaching a billion people, the Foundation has been actively helping NEAR community projects launch hubs across the globe. To be global, we must first be local — and that means connecting with people where they are and empowering them to build Web3 projects that address their own communities and needs. NEAR Hubs host local events in local languages to find the best people and projects and to forge partnerships with local organizations.

To date, NEAR Foundation has launched seven regional hubs. An extension for the Balkans Hub and the launch of the US hub were announced in Q3: 

Ukraine Hub (winding down as of Q4 2022) 
Kenya Hub (Sankore) 
Balkans Hub
Vietnam Hub
India Hub
South Korea Hub
US Hub 
The Foundation chose these locations based on a variety of factors, including Web3 adoption, number of developers, regulatory environments, and available capital.

NEAR Digital Collective Update
Early in Q3 (July), NEAR announced the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) — a pioneering effort in decentralizing ecosystem governance and funding. Through the NDC DAO, high-level decisions will be made on protocol and ecosystem development through a “fund-of-funds” structure, where working groups, projects, and ecosystem funds will build communities and invest in specific regions and verticals. NEAR sees the NDC as a potential model approach across Web3 for the creation and implementation of truly decentralized, on-chain governance.

During Q3, following a positive community response, a Governance Working Group was formed to take the next steps to launch and implement the NDC. They solicited applications for interested contributors to join the Governance Working Group. This working group is tasked with producing a detailed roadmap and key milestones for NEAR governance implementation, focusing on the following areas:

NEAR Constitution – Creation and ratification of shared values and basic rights for all community members. NEAR ecosystem’s north star.
Governance Framework & Proposal Process – Vision for a decentralized governance system & core governance components confirming structure, responsibilities, participation rules, and dispute resolution process.
Technical Governance Development Plan – On-chain practical implementation of the governance framework.
Legal Framework – Legal structure for the governance structure to ensure sustainability, risk mitigation, and true community ownership.
Community Engagement Guidelines – Standards to encourage positive, sustainable community behavior and interaction consistent with the values of the NEAR Constitution.
Through Q3, the Governance Working Group has been working on a draft of a NEAR Constitution, a Legal Framework  for governance structure, and a Code of Conduct. Follow along for the latest from the NDC, including weekly updates.

The Road Ahead
NEAR remains committed to its mission to:

Remove every barrier for Web3 creators, by creating an ecosystem that is uniquely simple, safe, scalable and sustainable.

The Foundation will continue to support the ecosystem, drive awareness to NEAR and Web3, and — now more than ever — educate regulators across the globe.

We will continue to invest and deploy capital in the key verticals mentioned above: Infrastructure, Integrations, Gaming/Entertainment, NFTs, DeFi, and DAOs.

In addition, the Foundation will continue to decentralize and deploy capital into additional ecosystem funds and regional hubs that are dedicated to the ongoing health of the NEAR ecosystem.

For any questions or feedback, please reach out to [email protected].

All of these efforts are to allow you to create without limits. 

We believe in a world where creativity is no longer held back by technology.

A world without limits.
Community Update: April 10th, 2020
COMMUNITY
April 10, 2020
Welcome NEAR Community,

We hope that everyone is doing well. You spoke, we listened. We’ve put together a series of interactive online events on topics you’ve let us know you want to learn more about, including Privacy and Blockchain, Decentralized Exchanges, Building on NEAR, and more. We’ve outlined a few of the upcoming events below, and thank the 65 participants who joined us virtually this week! Have a topic you’d like to explore with us? Let us know here.

Ready Layer One 
We’re excited to announce Ready Layer One, a collaboration between Cosmos, NEAR, Polkadot, Protocol Labs, Tezos and more! Ready Layer One is an interactive, immersive virtual event that contains talks, workshops, and rants by everyone from well-known speakers to community-sourced contributors. 

Think of it as the intersection between a hackathon, a conference, a masterclass seminar and a vaguely anarchist festival for developers and builders of the decentralized web. The content will help you learn how to build decentralized applications using the next generation of layer 1 protocols.

Tickets are free but limited, and are reserved for the developers and builders who are contributing to the decentralized web! We need to get together to figure out how crypto & blockchain tech can help prepare the foundation for our future.

You can access NEAR Community Tickets through participating in our community events; more details below. OR, sign up to host a talk, workshop or another digital event of your choice! Visit readylayer.one for details.

Ready Layer One — More info here
Community Events
We have started hosting several community events, below are the details to each. Active community members have a chance of winning a Community Ticket for Ready Layer One. 

AMA: Privacy and Blockchain

This AMA is on the intersection between Privacy and Blockchain. COVID-19 will give governments and companies reason to deploy further surveillance tools. 

Questions arise, such as: How can users protect themselves from privacy-infringing technology? How can Blockchain help to protect user privacy? How are dApps different to Web 2 applications? 

When? — The AMA will take place in the main channel of our Discord Group on the 16th of April at 8 PM CEST, which is 2 PM EST, and 11 AM PST.

You can submit your questions to the following survey and we will get back to you with a response.

Thursday Jam

Weekly interactive Zoom call in which NEAR introduces different aspects of building dApps. From mental models and use cases, over getting our hands dirty with specific examples and real code.

When? — Every Thursday at 4 PM Pacific Time, which is 7 PM Eastern Standard Time

How to join? — Please message us on Discord and you will receive an invite, or access events over our community calendar.

Community Talk

In this call, we invite projects and researchers from the open web ecosystem to introduce and discuss different concepts and projects. This series started off last Wednesday with an introduction to decentralised exchanges. If you would like to get involved, please let us know.

When? — This call takes place on a bi-weekly basis; the next one will be on the 22nd of April at 5 PM CEST, which is 11 AM EST, on Stablecoins.

How to join? — Please message us on Discord and you will receive an invite or access events over our community calendar.

1st Community Talk: Decentralised Exchanges
Windows Ready
We’re excited to announce that our primary introductory app now works seamlessly on Windows. Before, Create NEAR App worked best on Windows Subsystem for Linux, but it now can be run natively without all the downloads and preparation. The only requirement is to install NodeJS. Our goal is to onboard folks as quickly as possible, and this update will speed up workshop and hackathon progress for PC users. 

We’ve also included Window compatibility in our new examples page. We have a selection of examples tagged with Windows-friendly that include custom instructions for Windows users. 

We want to thank our community members who reached out about Windows support. We’ve heard you and appreciate the feedback! ❤️

I promised Peter we would feature his puppy. Welcome to the fam, Bosco! (Just look at him, half of his face are ears ❤️)
How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
NEAR APAC Day 2 Recap: Asia Gaming Trends, Interoperability, and Web3 for Brands
COMMUNITY
September 10, 2023
It would’ve been hard to imagine topping a jam-packed Day 1 of NEAR APAC, but Day 2 managed to do just that. The gorgeous Sunday in Saigon covered a wide range of topics, including significant discussions on the future trends in Web3 such as how brands can hop on board the Web3 bandwagon and a creative proposal to unite all Layer 1’s for mass adoption.

With each session, industry leaders shed light on challenges and the future trajectory of the fast-paced Web3 ecosystem in APAC. From the unique positioning of Web3 gaming in Asia to the potential rise of the next Web3 cycle, the discussions were varied and far-reaching. Let’s dive on into all the Day 2 happenings at NEAR APAC in Vietnam!

APAC experts discuss the next big trends in Web3
Let’s begin the Day Two recap with a standout panel diving into the next big Web3 trends. Experts agreed that it won’t just be about technological progress, but also the transformative ways that blockchain will weave into daily life. Asset tokenization, generative AI integration, and the proliferation of decentralized creator economies were some top trends on the table.

“Generative AI and asset tokenization are revolutionizing Web3 ecosystems, especially in growing economies like India,” said Sudeep Choudhari, head of blockchain at the India National Payments Corporation. “As integration across borders accelerates, we’ll also challenge traditional FX rates, anticipating a future with minimal cross-border payment costs.”

Hanna Tantoco, APAC Marketing Director at Blockdaemon, piggybacked on the transformative role of generative AI in enhancing blockchain user experiences. She also pointed out the rising prominence of gaming in Asia, particularly on NEAR. Additionally, she highlighted Singapore’s burgeoning creator economy, powered largely by NFTs, as another future trend.

How brands can futureproof themselves with blockchain
Another morning highlight was a panel discussion about how brands and enterprises can harness the potential of Web3 to adapt and thrive. Key points revolved around democratizing user data control, countering data monopolization by tech giants, tokenizing assets, and challenges in linking the physical and digital worlds.

“Enterprises often face challenges with hiring experts who may quickly move on to other projects,” observed Oleg Fomenko, founder of SWEAT. “While consultancies can provide insights, the real breakthrough comes when you start building and experimenting with MVPs. Though initial attempts might fall short, perseverance can yield surprising results.”

Alex Chiocchi, CPO of Pagoda, added that Web3 streamlines verification, challenging traditional ad networks. By using an open blockchain system, excessive fees are prevented, promoting shared value with users. This shift allows benefits like self-custody and reputation while redistributing margins back to the people.

Among the key takeaways from the session was that businesses harnessing blockchain’s capabilities can anticipate a transformative impact on the global economy, especially with asset tokenization’s projected growth through 2030. As brands navigate challenges like ensuring digital authenticity and early adoption, having a targeted strategy is crucial.

Web3 gaming: Asia’s landscape and blockchain utilization
The Asian gaming landscape is buzzing with the rise of Web3 development, promising an unprecedented era of innovation and user empowerment. Central to discussions at the “Web3 Gaming: Asia Landscape” session was the gaming community’s appetite for asset and data ownership, often prioritizing this over the complexities of Web3 itself.

After attending Korea Blockchain Week, it’s evident that Japan and Korea’s mobile giants are pioneering in Web3 gaming,” said Luke Xie, founder of gaming VC fund Press Start Capital. “As opposed to Web3 games like Axie, creating AAA games takes much longer. Given the rapid pace of crypto, former mobile developers align better with this fast-paced dynamic.”

Ishank Gupta, co-founder of Kratos Studios in India, emphasized that gamers prioritize asset and data ownership over backend Web3 tech. He predicted that blockchain games should bring benefits that gamers care about with a focus on ease of usability. For instance, leading studios in India are integrating well-known IP into Web3 games while ensuring they remain engaging.

“We’re witnessing a new golden age of gaming driven by indie studios,” added Xie. “Small teams, empowered by AI, are crafting games that punch above their weight. We believe that on-chain gaming, while difficult to execute at present, is the future. It’s all about selecting the right chain based on tech, community, and support. NEAR excels at all of the above.”

The panel agreed that the Web3 gaming industry in APAC and beyond is undergoing a transformative phase, with blockchain offering gamers more control over assets and data. As developers continue to build, the focus will be on seamless onboarding, speed, and user-centric experiences. Blockchains should be subtly integrated without disrupting the gaming experience.

Bringing Web3 together with Multichain: a call for collaboration 
Today’s blockchain landscape consists of independent Layer 1’s vying for supremacy, bringing up the core question of interoperability. With users often navigating several ecosystems, creating cross-chain experiences becomes paramount. This star-studded panel explored new frameworks to address hurdles and challenges in the current siloed multi-chain user experience.

“Web3’s ethos is modularity, similar to Lego blocks,” explained NEAR CEO Marike Flament. “While we prioritize access and user growth, interoperability challenges persist. But trust and unified solutions drive adoption, not a fractured approach. It’s essential that technology seamlessly serves the end user.”

Cameron Dennis, CEO of Banyan, added that key management is a critical issue. He pointed out ways to simplify these processes with tools like FastAuth. Dennis added that addressing the noticeable gap in cross-chain liquidity should be a focus. He believes that a true multichain future that drives adoption will solve key and wallet management for a better UX.

“Reflecting on a decade in this space, the competitive landscape has shifted,” mused Mary Beth Buchanan from the Cardano Foundation who is also an advisor to NEAR, “Earlier, exchanges hesitated to collaborate, fearing a loss of advantage. Today, there’s a collective push to learn from one another, ensuring technology works seamlessly for the end user.”

Cameron believes that reinforcing the current ecosystem is paramount before extending cross-chain efforts, even though creating a decentralized internet remains a resource-intensive endeavor.

Marieke stressed the importance of open-source technology in attracting top talent. Drawing inspiration from Web2’s approach to 5G standardization, she suggested that Layer 1 leaders could unite in an ‘L20’ alliance to champion unified standards, fostering a unified vision for the industry’s future.

And that’s a wrap for the official Day 2 sessions at NEAR APAC. From gaming and brand adoption to multi-chain standards and collaboration, it was clear that this first-of-its-kind regional event was a rousing success for developers and the NEAR community alike. Sunday in Saigon rolls on with more side events and after-parties, so stay tuned for the full ICYMI tomorrow.
Introducing NearPay: the First Bridge to Fiat Debit Card on NEAR
COMMUNITY
March 8, 2022
Web3 users looking for an easy bridge between fiat (currencies like the US Dollar and the Euro) and crypto needn’t wait any longer. NearPay, the first debit card and payments widget in the NEAR ecosystem, now bridges fiat and the crypto world in one seamless user experience. 

Launched in late 2021 by Switzerland-based Kikimora Labs, NearPay announced its debit card wait list in early March. NearPay initially hoped to attract 1,000 users to its wait list, but had more than 18,000 in under a week. 

“We hoped that people would welcome our card product, but we definitely didn’t expect that so many people would show interest,” said Ilya Romanov, Chief Marketing Officer at NearPay. “We highly appreciate the support of the community. And now we are working hard to deliver a product that people are waiting for.”

How the NearPay card works
Set to release later this year, NearPay is a debit card that comes as both a physical card and a mobile-based app. NearPay offers a number of features for consumers, developers, and merchants to make instant transactions and payments using their preferred cryptocurrency, including NEAR. 

“You will see no difference between crypto and fiat payments,” reads the NearPay website. “Simple. Fast. Both directions.”

NearPay also allows users to track their spending through the app, and offers world-class security to keep accounts safe. Though some particulars are still in the works, the NearPay card will support 3DSecure and is already secured through Verified by Visa. There will also be features such as spending limits, with the full feature set becoming available by the end of March or early April. 

A seamless Web3 gateway 
The NearPay team believes that the crypto debit card will be amongst the easiest ways to dive into crypto, making it a seamless part of daily life. 

Consumers can top up their NearPay card balances, and use it to make purchases immediately. “The cards will be NEAR-oriented but support other cryptocurrencies as well,” says Ivan Ilin, Chief Operating Officer at NearPay. 

NearPay offers several tools to developers interested in using the card for their apps and projects. To get started, NearPay offers a plug-and-play widget, simple documentation, webhooks and APIs, and a developer console. 

“For developers, we provide a simple API with an SDK,” says Ilin. “The integration is possible with a website or a mobile application. We provide a merchant dashboard where one can see all the transaction statistics.”

NearPay also helps onboard traditional businesses into the global Web3 ecosystem. The team built a payment gateway for merchants with no transaction or setup fees, allowing businesses to accept crypto for all of their goods and services, while a handy dashboard allows businesses to see data on payments, invoices, and more. 

“For businesses, we support two scenarios: fiat-to-crypto to a user’s wallet and fiat-to-crypto to a merchant’s wallet for a certain order,” Ilin explains. “We work with NFT marketplaces, DeFi projects, and many others.”

Countries supporting NearPay 
The NearPay widget is currently covered in 56 countries and supports 27 currencies. The NearPay team is currently working on adding more supported countries and currencies, as well as making the transaction fee lower for the users.

“Our first cards will be made for Europe,” says Ilin. “But we have plans to cover all of the countries, including the United States and Asia.”
To see the full list of countries currently supporting NearPay, visit Kikimora Labs’ Notion website.
TheFunPass™ Debuts at North America’s Largest Night Market with The Littles and NEAR
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 13, 2023
Everyone’s a winner playing carnival games thanks to TheFunPass™, a groundbreaking leap in Web3 that will redefine loyalty rewards and transform the way we engage and connect with events and experiences. From the popular Web3 project, the littles, this innovative Web3 rewards app on the NEAR blockchain offers a solution that will transform the event landscape, that benefits event-goers but also empowers event operators. 

It’s all about bridging the gap between the physical and digital worlds, as TheFunPass™ creates a seamless and immersive experience for users while driving value for businesses. 

TheFunPass™ presents a brand-new model of interaction that empowers users, business operators, and The Littles holders alike. The Littles’ TheFunPass™ rewards app will debut at the Richmond Night Market, rethinking the entire carnival experience by connecting people through interactive missions, rewards, and personalized engagement. 

Now every carnival-goer can win prizes, food, and once-in-a-lifetime trips — even if their skeeball doesn’t land in the bullseye — breathing new life into the classic carnival games.

TheFunPass™ is the best way to win at carnival games
Wil Lee and Cass Chan created the Web3 children’s media company, the littles, in 2021 offering a creative blend of animation, gaming, and real-world activations. The Littles is even joining up with TIME Studios to produce a children’s animation series. TheFunPass™, their latest endeavor, showcases their commitment to pushing the boundaries of interactive entertainment. Meanwhile, Lee is also the CEO and creator of Wun2Free Entertainment, a Company that has been producing events for over 10 years and hires over one hundred people each season, with TheFunPass™ as their latest endeavor. 

TheFunPass™ is a rewards application that utilizes Web3 technology to enhance the way people emotionally engage with events. The application will debut at the Richmond Night Market in British Columbia, the largest night market in North America. TheFunPass™ engages user participation through missions, allowing them to earn digital and physical rewards unlocking exclusive benefits, digital collectibles, and unforgettable experiences. 

TheFunPass™ not only engages event attendees but also presents a game-changing opportunity for businesses and operators. The app will also enable event operators and businesses to create customized missions and campaigns driving attendee participation and extending engagement before, during, and after the event. It’s a win-win scenario, where attendees enjoy immersive experiences and rewards, while businesses drive revenue growth and forge stronger connections with their audience.

TheFunPass™ is a new and innovative way to experience the Richmond Night Market, which boasts over 500 food stalls, 100 retail shops, and an average attendance of over 1 million visitors per season. TheFunPass™ can reach tens of thousands of carnival-goers and engage them in unprecedented ways. The partnership between The Littles and NEAR will change the way people emotionally engage with events.

The Littles and TheFunPass™ are a NEAR perfect match
TheFunPass™, powered by NEAR, revolutionizes the traditional carnival experience, offering dynamic gameplay with location-based missions and rewarding social engagements. The app’s integration of digital and physical missions enables users to accrue reward points beyond the physical space confines, effectively turning the standard carnival participation model on its head thanks to the development support of LaunchBadge, a leading software development team trusted by the littles and NEAR. 

“800 users for a soft launch has reaffirmed our decision to support The Fun Pass and the team’s vision to reimagine how we experience the night market with blockchain technology,” said Dillon Freeman, Blockchain Success Manager on NEAR Foundation’s BD team. “The team has been executing at a high level and we’re excited to see what they deliver in the coming months.”

Beyond the in-person carnival fun, TheFunPass™ also facilitates year-round engagement with unique missions and reward opportunities, making the carnival-style fun available wherever and whenever. This innovative blend of phygital experiences is a game changer, enabling events to expand their reach and engage audiences more effectively.

The mechanics of TheFunPass™ are simple: Play Games, Collect STARs, Win Rewards! Attendees participate in carnival games, scan QR codes or tap to gather STARs on TheFunPass™, and subsequently exchange these STARs for various rewards, regardless of their game outcomes. The participation model offers a tangible sense of achievement, transforming the carnival experience.

TheFunPass™ ensures an exciting and ongoing engagement with its mission-based gameplay and reward system. After the carnival, users can continue to engage in digital missions, games, and rewards, offering an immersive experience that extends beyond its physical boundaries.

Debuting at Richmond Night Market, the partnership between The Littles and NEAR, with the development expertise from Launchbadge, showcases a unique use case of Web3 technology. By using TheFunPass™, every visitor stands a chance to win prizes, while also partaking in a unique Web3 event experience, thereby redefining event participation.

Empowering all stakeholders in the events industry 
TheFunPass™ empowers The Littles holders by integrating them into its growth through a unique referral program, reflecting the app’s commitment to decentralization and community empowerment. This groundbreaking approach enables Littles holders to earn commissions by referring businesses and operators to the app’s expanding network.

Beyond rewarding users, TheFunPass™ is an invaluable tool for businesses and operators. It enhances customer engagement, fosters loyalty, and promotes revenue growth. Additionally, the app provides businesses with valuable consumer behavior insights, enabling them to customize their offerings and establish meaningful connections with their audience.

The Littles are poised to lead the web3 industry into the future with the launch of TheFunPass™, powered by NEAR. By introducing gamification and immersive experiences to events, concerts, and festivals worldwide, TheFunPass™ aims to revolutionize the event experience, heralding a new frontier of interaction for fans.

TheFunPass™ presents a unique convergence of loyalty rewards, immersive experiences, and Web3 technology. As we step into the future of truly phygital experiences, every event-goer can look forward to a redefined, gamified, and winning event experience like never before.
P2P Validator Joins NEAR as a Node Operator
COMMUNITY
February 19, 2021
All decentralized platforms have their own disadvantages and difficulties that developers face when building decentralized applications. Ethereum scaling limitations and spiked transaction fees make operating dApps challenging, causing tangible limitations for many users.

NEAR Protocol has been in continuous design for the last few years to address the most pressing issues of blockchain application development lowering the entry barrier for end users. Successfully implemented solutions can effectively offer dApp creators high-quality toolkits improving end user experience.

NEAR’s homogeneous sharding design is specifically adapted to give developers the simplicity they need providing dynamic scalability and stabilized fees. The ultimate goal is to make building dApps simple, thus accelerating their development.

In light of the evolving nature of blockchains, P2P Validator is excited to announce the launch of NEAR node on mainnet to facilitate the development of new open financial instruments giving access to permissionless economies for the users. 

Please follow this link for a guide to staking your NEAR with P2P Validator.

Our team has extensive experience in setting up secure infrastructure for more than 15 blockchains. P2P Validator maintains high-availability nodes and provides secure staking services for the most groundbreaking projects in the blockchain space. The node infrastructure is under advanced monitoring with 24/7 technical support, backups and alerts.

About NEAR
NEAR exists to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity with the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands. NEAR’s unique account model allows developers to build secure apps that consumers can actually use similarly to today’s web apps, something which requires multiple second-layer add-ons on other blockchains.

If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for a developer program and join the conversation in NEAR Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to NEAR newsletter, or following @NEARProtocol on Twitter for the latest news.

About P2P Validator
P2P Validator is a world-leading staking provider with the best industry security practices and proven expertise. At the time of publishing, more than one billion of USD value is staked with P2P Validator by over 6000 delegators across 15+ networks. We provide comprehensive due-diligence of digital assets and offer top-notch staking opportunities.
NEAR Community in Focus: The Future of Community on NEAR
COMMUNITY
June 23, 2022
What will the world look like 20 years from now? By then, Web3 will be mainstream rather than in its nascent stages. It will be reality, not hype. So how can the NEAR community work towards a future that makes everyone proud?

One question is whether Web3 will live up to its promises of creator empowerment through the coordination of decentralized systems. 

Community is at the center of it all.

“For NEAR, community is not about owning the narrative by trying to eat into each others’ share of the pie,” says Harshit Tiwari, Community Activation and Adoption Specialist at NEAR. “NEAR is committed to building a Web3 ecosystem where every human can find and build a digital home. We believe that true inclusion begins at the grassroots level.”

Let’s take a look at the future of community on NEAR.

Embracing timeless, unbreakable foundations
The future of community on NEAR starts with commitments that the ecosystem is making now. From Tiwari’s perspective, several pillars define the NEAR community experience. 

With a commitment to diversity, NEAR is working towards one of the most vibrant ecosystems in the world. In this diverse community, the vision is for people to have the freedom to pursue their passions and make an impact. Through shared governance, every community member will have a toolkit to protect the integrity of their ecosystem. 

The culture, throughout NEAR, will inspire a sense of belonging so that everyone can find a home in the NEAR ecosystem. The overall impact is to facilitate collaborative uplifting, to make sure every person gets to enjoy upward socio-economic mobility while collaborating with people around the world.

Tiwari believes that in the coming months and years the NEAR community will become increasingly decentralized. 

“NEAR is really letting community members steer the community governance and building a safe environment for people from diverse backgrounds to come and thrive,” says Tiwari. “How the community decides to govern itself and organize around ideas is decided by the community through DAOs.”

“The biggest things we are all collectively trying to figure out are equitable distribution of resources, opportunities, participation in governance experiments and decentralized ownership of ecosystem responsibilities,” adds Tiwari.

‘Phygital’ community building across cultures  
India is known for its vibrant artist communities, traditional craftspersonship, and vibrant in-person marketplaces. Imagine being able to experience the rich beauty and cultural tradition of rural artists, from anywhere in the world. 

It’s this “what if” that led to the creation of Naksh Marketplace, an NFT marketplace fueled by communities all over India. Founded by Srilakshmi Barathi and Nivedita Hail, Naksh grew out of the duo’s time in London working on a project in which Indian artists and artisans taught their skills to the world using a stitch kit. 

“That’s when we realized the value a traditional artwork holds in the art space and we understood that there was a demand for such artwork which is associated with a cultural background of its own,” they adds. “We also saw the lack of artists in the NFT space who create their work on physical media, and lack of platforms that were accessible by the Indian audience and Indian artists.”

Initially, Naksh focused on product instead of community building. But during the build, Barathi and Hail received support from many individuals. Through this feedback, a Naksh community evolved organically. 

“That’s when we started interacting way more with our communities,” says Barathi. “We set up events and spaces for them to join and give us their opinions.”

Since Naksh focuses on onboarding artists who produce work physically and not digitally, almost all onboarding efforts happen in person. 

“We’ve been going to a lot of regional exhibitions and art galleries, meeting artists through some amazing curators,” say Barathi and Hail. “We have also found artists through virtual exhibitions.”

The duo see Web3 as a pathway to connect the ingenuity of rural artists with the rest of the world.

“Most rural artists are not aware of technology that can empower, educate, monetize and preserve their work,” explains Barathi. “The need for a vehicle to help Indian artists access the larger digital ecosystem with their physical products gave us an incentive to build Naksh.”

Naksh’s next iteration will invite and onboard traditional artists from around the world. Envision a platform where traditional Indian artists—oftentimes individuals who have never left the country—can join the same communities as fellow creators from around the world. It’s a first-in-history mind-meld.

“We are also trying to make our platform ‘phygital’ since all our traditional artworks have a physical asset,” says Barathi. “We aim to be the future of art exchanges.”

Once Naksh launches digital and self-minting features for artists, Barathi expects more people to join. At that point, new communities will spring up around digital artists, just as with Naksh’s traditional Indian and fine artists. 

Facilitating unique collaboration
“Boo.”

In a time of widespread negativity and distrust, that’s how Capardano, one of the project managers at BOO Monsters, has begun greeting people and signing off on emails. “It’s one of my favorite things to say,” says Capardano, who goes by “Cap” for short. 

This perspective encapsulates the spirit of BOO Monsters, a collection of 100 NFT monikers roaming the internet. So what are these BOOs about?

“We’re a group of people, who live across the world, who otherwise had no ties together,” says Cap. “We’re a DAO with decentralized project management.”

In total, there are currently 37 BOOs roaming Web3. With BOO NFTs costing as much as $300,000 USD due to supply and demand economics, the community is exclusive to high net worth individuals.

“Many of our members come from an investment perspective, with unique experiences and insights,” says Cap. “NFTs are just one gateway into our community. The money goes into the DAO to be spent across our endeavors and benefit the NEAR community.”

One vision that the BOOs are building towards is evolutionary art. So what exactly does that mean, in practical terms? 

With their RPG NEAR Future, built natively into Discord, a tribe of robots evolve beyond their initial programming. BOOs also created Antisocial Ape Club, a collection of 3,333 unique, generative pixel art NFTs. And Ev3reth, a machine learning artist and composer, is  partnering with artists such as GDM, whose work blends surrealism and fantasy. The BOOs also offer expertise and support to other NFT projects, like Skellies Secret Society and Few and Far. 

“It’s about keeping growing, moving, and adding value to NEAR as a whole,” says Cap, who has been helping bring AnonymousFox to market.

“It’s about helping people for the sake of doing good,” says Cap. “The Boos are curious and giving. We envision a future on NEAR built on empathy. There are people here in their 20s and people here in their 50s with a lot more life experience. What we share in common is that we’re curious. We embrace that there’s a lot we don’t know. It’s an environment built on love, where we are always learning and moving forward.”

“Decentralization can be messy,” says Cap. “But we’re figuring it out with good intentions and mutual support. We see a future on NEAR built on these foundations.”

Welcoming people who are hesitant to enter the space
Understandably, many people stay away from cryptocurrencies and blockchain for reasons ranging from personal safety to confusion and barriers to technical adoption. 

“I think working towards mass adoption with massive educational efforts and  onboarding for more diverse folks — namely women, people of diverse genders, people of color, and people in vulnerable social and financial situations is how I would like to see NEAR shaping its community infrastructure,” says Maria Neu, community manager at Mintbase, an NFT platform.”

“It’s about giving them access not only to information but skills to work in the NEAR ecosystem,” she adds. “In terms of infrastructure and tooling, what I believe could help is a better overview of the existing guilds  — and a place to research. Think of a place to insert keywords to find communities already working on certain subjects. For example: art, utility NFTs, translation, education, etc.”

In other words, the future of NEAR begins with a commitment to listening, observing, learning, and questioning assumptions.

“The NEAR ecosystem is a very friendly and open place to start getting involved with Web3  but could be optimized and simplified for those who are still reluctant to enter the space,” says Wend.

The road ahead
It’s important to remember that these are still early days for NEAR. As Cap likes to say, “Web3 is the wild west.”

It’s up to NEAR communities to create the future that they want to see. It also means that NEAR users must stretch their minds, and meet each other in a space of respect and kindness.

“My biggest takeaway about the NEAR Community is that it’s in fact a ‘Community of Communities,’” says Rebecca Hallquist, a Community Team Lead at NEAR Foundation.

“It contains incredible and ever-changing multitudes,” she says. “Whether it’s a group of digital artists in the Philippines, Web3 educators in Venezuela, or digital nomads hopping from crypto conference to crypto conference, they’re finding like-minded people here sharing similar interests, language, and enthusiasm for NEAR’s mandate and vision.”

NEAR is a place where communities help new members settle in. It’s like a new family settling into a neighborhood, explains Halquist. It’s about helping people contribute where best they can.

In the future, communities on NEAR will likely fulfill several functions. They could become gathering spaces and networks for social support, hobbies, income, learning, and so much more. For this to happen, the tools, platforms, and other means of organizing will have to be as multifaceted as the communities needs. And what NEAR communities build will manifest in the real world. They have the opportunity to be counterforces to the world’s more destabilizing forces. 

“It’s a steady process of organic evolving self-organization with the potential for an increasing number of connections to emerge between the different communities, between communities and dapps, and between communities and projects, the more any new group ‘settles in,’” says Halquist.

“We will need to be multifaceted enough to accommodate those needs more robustly.”
BitGo Becomes First Qualified Custodian to Support NEAR Protocol and its Assets
COMMUNITY
July 19, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce its partnership with BitGo, the leader in digital asset financial services, to create secure custodial support on the Protocol. This partnership will enable institutions to custody their tokens on BitGo’s platform using hot wallets and Qualified Custody wallets. BitGo clients will also be able to stake NEAR tokens and earn rewards through their BitGo wallets.

“BitGo is proud to become the first qualified custodian to provide services to the entire NEAR Protocol ecosystem, including holders of the NEAR token who have been searching for a secure way to store and stake their assets,” says Mike Belshe, BitGo CEO. “We are excited to deliver them safe and secure custody and staking services for their NEAR tokens and other valuable assets.”

BitGo shares with NEAR Foundation a commitment to the evolution of the Open Web.

Currently, BitGo is the largest processor of on-chain Bitcoin transactions, processing a whopping 20% (approximately) of all Bitcoin transactions around the world and supports over 500 other coins and tokens, now including the NEAR token. NEAR is so confident in BitGo that the Foundation has chosen to custody its own treasury with them and stake part of this treasury using BitGo’s wallets. 

Customers of BitGo include the largest exchanges of crypto-assets in the world as well as institutional investors across 50+ countries. Backed by Goldman Sachs, Craft Ventures, Digital Currency Group, DRW, Galaxy Digital Ventures, Redpoint Ventures, and Valor Equity Partners, BitGo is the global leader in digital asset financial services, providing liquidity, custody, and security solutions. 

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament sees the BitGo partnership as proof of the community’s commitment to widening the ecosystem, as well as creating a more diverse community of users.

“This is a significant step for NEAR and its foray into the world of institutional enterprise,” Flament adds. “With BitGo, we will support their clients and give them the ability to stake NEAR assets, both safely and securely. We are also putting our confidence into BitGo by putting a part of our own treasury in its custody because it is simply the best at what it does.”

Together we can truly make significant inroads in broadening the number of people leveraging our ecosystem and ultimately bring us closer to achieving our goal for mass web3 adoption.”

In 2020 BitGO launched Prime Trading and Lending, in addition to BitGo Portfolio and Tax, providing clients with a full-stack solution for digital assets. In 2018, it launched BitGo Trust Company, the first qualified custodian purpose-built for storing digital assets. Approaching a decade since its 2013 inception, BitGo, like NEAR, is in it for the long-haul. 
Self-Sovereignty Is NEAR: A Vision for Our Ecosystem
A POST FROM ILLIA POLOSUKHIN
January 19, 2024
As a kid growing up in Ukraine in the ’90s after the dissolution of the USSR, I remember we watched the price of bread go from 1,000 karbovanets, to 10,000, to 100,000 in less than five years (until that currency was thrown out altogether and replaced with hryvnia). When I first started working as a software developer as a teenager, I kept my earnings in cash in my room because I already understood that we couldn’t trust corrupt banks with our money.

Between 2014 and 2016 alone, 77 banks failed in Ukraine. My grandparents still have their savings account bank books tracking the money they put away during the USSR years––but those savings don’t exist anymore. So even something that is yours, that you rightfully own, can go away if the system you’re a part of fails. The same thing is happening to millions of people living under hyperinflation, dictatorships, and war zones across the world, of course. And while these may seem like abstract or distant problems that won’t arrive at your doorstep, let me tell you from my own experience: nothing is guaranteed. 

Every system is as fragile as the rules holding it together. And the rules can change. They’re changing around us right now, and I believe we are approaching a point of no return. 

The Need for Digital Self-Sovereignty

We need to create new economic opportunities for people everywhere via self-sovereignty, which should be a universal right and which technology can now provide, not just nation-states as in most other points in history. For citizens of nations who’ve enjoyed economic security and a high degree of sovereignty, this may not seem like an immediate-term issue. But it is. 

The economics of tech companies leads inevitably to corrupting their original product or vision for the sake of profit in order to maintain growth, and more importantly, they naturally involve creating barriers for someone else to disrupt. In order to maintain their power, governments will use pressure and ingenuity in order to control their populations, too often to the point of violating human rights in the name of safety or security. 

We all use our phones and computers a thousand times a day, prioritizing convenience over self-sovereignty because until now, we haven’t had a choice. We are now approaching a tipping point towards a dystopian future that we may not be able to come back from, brought on not just by governments but by the economics of tech companies. What happens when these incentives increasingly collide and push each other deeper into the lives of individuals for the sake of maintaining control and profit? 

That’s right about where we are today. 

Changing the Stakes with Generative AI

Before founding NEAR, I was an AI researcher. I worked at Google where I contributed to TensorFlow, and eventually published a paper with a handful of colleagues called “Attention Is All You Need.” That paper introduced the Transformers architecture that powers ChatGPT, Bard, and most of the well-known LLMs behind last year’s explosive growth in AI. 

I was first interested in AI because of the 2001 movie, “Artificial Intelligence.” Changing how we interact with computing and augmenting one’s intelligence to maximize human potential was, and still is, very appealing to me. And I still think it has the potential to make human lives, organizations, even governments better. But like any other technology, in the hands of the wrong people or with the wrong incentives, it also has the potential to make our lives terrible. 

Generative AI is creating a universal and scalably personal method of enabling control and manipulation. Practically, it means your social feed and search results can ensure that you buy specific products or form a specific opinion. This will start in the form of commercial improvements that lead to more profit for tech giants: Netflix will generate a movie script that can shape your opinion, Facebook can reinforce that opinion by showing you more of it, and so on. This could even happen at a more fundamental level, such as flooding training data with specific information to influence all models trained on it. 

If this granular information and vector of manipulation on such a personal level can be extracted or bought, it will be, and then it will become a tool for control. If it’s stored somewhere centralized and hackable, it will be stolen––we see this constantly with Web2 giants as it is. If governments can get access to this data, they will use it to maintain or grow their power. 

The true danger that generative AI introduces is that this exploitation won’t just be on a systems level or a population level, it will become personal and incredibly specific. The depth of potential control and manipulation goes to the level of each and every human, no matter where they live, no matter where they keep their money. Such a powerful technology simply cannot remain in the hands of centralized companies, nor be too easy for governments to take over.

So What Should We Do About It?

So if people don’t yet feel the sense of urgency towards building new systems that uphold self-sovereignty, what will make it real for people? Changes in collective values are always driven by economic opportunity. The major revolutions of history started because of economic failures: American independence from Britain, the French Revolution, the collapse of the USSR, and so on. If people see ways to create better economic realities for themselves and their families, then they will turn values into actions. 

Creating new opportunities for people via self-sovereignty is what NEAR is about. Complete self-sovereignty  has been the NEAR vision since day one: we want to build a world where all people can control their own assets, data, and power of governance. This sovereignty must apply not only at the level of individuals but also the organizations and communities they create, and eventually societies. 

Self-sovereignty is a new primitive that hasn’t existed before today. One always needed to rely on some power of violence for ensuring rules are followed, most recently nation-states. One of the core principles of digital self-sovereignty is the ability to choose and switch between any service provider. There is no lock- in. There are no middlemen like banks or government agencies that can lose or steal assets, or change the rules on you out of nowhere. 

Importantly, this must also apply to AI. People need to own their data so they know what it’s being used for and so they can actively consent to personalized experiences they think will improve their lives. Models must be governed transparently, in public, with clear rules and monitoring to proactively manage risk and reputation systems to build more clarity around information and traceability. Web3 can help to uphold, scale, and manage such systems to ensure AI is a force for good while also preventing it from being too exploitable. 

Another major challenge, which is especially clear in governance but it also applies to corporations, is that when we select someone to represent our ideas for us as our delegate, they will always have their own interests and motivations in the mix as well. They don’t necessarily have nefarious intentions, it’s just a natural tendency. This is the “principal agent problem,” wherein the person elected behaves differently than the people who elected them or pay them would prefer based on their best interests. This is where AI governance systems can help by introducing neutral agents, where unbiased AI agents governed directly by a community can act on their behalf in a more reliable way. With transparent governance and monitoring, AI can be a force for good in individual lives as well as for the collective. 

A Vision for the NEAR Future

Despite my concerns about where the traditional tech paradigm is potentially heading, I remain a techno-optimist. I wouldn’t be doing this work if I didn’t think it was for the good of everyone, and I’ve read enough sci-fi to know that the outcomes of science and technology are much more about what people do with them than the tech itself. If we want something, we should build it. 

I would like NEAR to become a fully sovereign operating system that is equipped with a personal AI assistant that optimizes for users’ needs without revealing private information about the user’s data or assets. It should also be able to interact and transact with other people’s AIs and the community’s AIs peer-to-peer. I call this “user-owned AI.”

We also need shared community AIs, which are governed by the members of such a community. They represent the mix of needs and knowledge of all the members of such a community, from something like a small club or startup, to the city, to the nation-state, to the global level. There is always an opportunity to fork one community and create new ones. The community governs which data goes into training its community model, and can run inference (running live data through a model) privately in such a way that only the user sees input and output, while getting a proof that the selected model was used.

To facilitate this vision, a lot of pieces need to come together:

Economic and technological opportunity to enable users to onboard en masse.
Open source software across the stack, from blockchain tech to AI models.
Blockchains must get abstracted away from the user so they are not barriers to entry or participation. I call this the principle of Chain Abstraction.
Applications must provide a novel value unlock: for example, Cosmose and Sweat. These apps reward users and serve as an economic gateway into a broader ecosystem of opportunities.
On-edge, meaning hyperlocal, AI models that are usable by individuals (and free of manipulation).
Community-owned AI models with governance and economic opportunity, replacing everything from business ops to government agencies. Self-governance by the people, for the people, at scale with the help of technology and decentralized peer-to-peer systems.
Blockchains, peer-to-peer payments, Web3, zero-knowledge, very large language models and on-edge AI models: these are not separate technology verticals, but rather interconnected facets of a new digital paradigm of self-sovereignty. 

We have the tools to remake how we provide for ourselves, how we work together and govern ourselves, and how we consume and generate information. Without gatekeepers, fair and open to everyone. And this is not a futuristic vision: it’s possible to start experimenting and building now, before our fragile and outdated systems and structures get weaker or fail, before too much centralization leads to the worst outcomes instead of the ones we all design and share together.

––Illia Polosukhin, Co-Founder of NEAR and CEO of NEAR Foundation


Community Update: Community Token Sale, Mintbase, Flux Phase 1.0, 🌈 Rainbow Bridge
COMMUNITY
August 18, 2020
Hello citizens of NEARverse! This is NiMA coming to you from a NEARby planet in the Milky Chain … 

A lot has been going on in the NEAR community in the past couple of weeks. But first things first, we are truly humbled by the level of enthusiasm and support we have received from the wider blockchain community who have joined NEAR as token holders through our community-first token sale. 

Our aim has always been to build and serve one of the most diverse communities in the Open Web ecosystem. This sale allows us to further decentralize ownership of the NEAR network and prepare for the launch of our community-governed MainNet. 

Speaking of MainNet, we are proud to announce the addition of several new trusted validators to NEAR Validator’s Advisory Board (NVAB). These organizations will have a crucial role in the upcoming MainNet Restricted launch. 

You can read more about NVAB here, but it’s worth highlighting here how validation and delegation are uniquely DeFi-friendly on NEAR! Read on to find out more …

NEAR’s Smart Contract Based Delegation Unlocks a Universe of Open Finance (aka DeFi) Use Cases for Validators and Delegators 🚀

In contrast to other protocols, NEAR offers much more flexibility to validators by allowing them to create their own unique delegation contracts on-chain without the need for centralized services. This is because delegation in NEAR is done through smart contracts vs. being baked into the protocol. 

From our NVAB announcement blog: 

“This contract-based delegation makes it easier to pipe together Open Finance components, so you can imagine contracts which dynamically allocate delegators’ funds to lending protocols or validators depending on the prevailing interest rates and return in the market. Essentially, staking becomes a core component of the Open Finance ecosystem while still providing security to the system as intended.”

NEAR Ecosystem Updates:

1, 2, 3, Flux – decentralizing mainnet 

Over the coming week, Flux Phase 1.0 will become the first protocol to go live on NEAR Mainnet. You can read more about their phased approach to launching on NEAR on their blog.The first version of the Flux Protocol will launch with the introduction of $DAI ported over via the Ethereum<>NEAR two-way bridge. 

The Non-fungible Cat is Out of the Bag – MintBase is joining the NEAR Ecosystem

Mintbase is a portal to the new virtual economy and they do that using the superpowers of tokens. Non-fungible tokens or NFTs are at the core of Mintbase. Users can tokenize, buy and sell anything from art to music and events tickets. 

According to DappRadar they’re one of the top 5 most used marketplaces on Ethereum. The team at Mintbase want to take NFTs to the next level and hope to one day tokenize an entire stadium’s worth of tickets. That however is not feasible on Ethereum today. We’re delighted that they are joining the NEAR family. Give them a warm welcome and shout out on Twitter! 

Engineering Updates:

🌈 Rainbow Bridge on TestNet

If you’re a developer you can already check out the Github repo and for everyone else keep an eye on our blog for an upcoming in-depth article about our decentralized ETH<>NEAR bridge. 

Rainbow Bridge is already making some noise in Crypto Twitter! 🙏 kudos to Anett from ETHMagicians for the shout out 🎉 

2FA added to NEAR Wallet 🏦

View your “Profile” page in the NEAR Wallet to enable Two Factor Authentication! Our version of 2FA uses a multi-signature contract deployed to your account. This allows you to secure your account with your email account or mobile device, and protects against a large number of potential attacks. Check back for a deep dive into how it works! 

Bounties, NEPs, and Releases: 

near-sdk-as 1.0.0 published 🎉:

https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/releases/tag/v1.0.0

We are regularly publishing AssemblyScript bounties, here is the most recent one: https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/issues/216 

There’s an NEP focused on significantly improving our contract call TPS, join the discussion here: https://github.com/nearprotocol/NEPs/issues/97 

Vital Point AI Guild building on NEAR*Textile @ HackFS 

Aaron, Guild Lead of Vital Point AI, has been hacking together some amazing stuff using both NEAR and Textile. You can follow Aaron and apply to join VP Guild, but here’s a short excerpt from his hackathon diaries: 


“Central to my whole plan was linking NEAR accounts to Textile threadsDB threadIds. If you’re not familiar with Textile – think of it as a database provider. You can run your own on your hardware or use their hub – which I’ve opted to do for the hackathon.”

One last thing … we are preparing to launch our first massive open online hackathon (MOOH!?), code name: Hack The Rainbow 🌈 If you are developer or designer you can already sign-up on the landing page. More info coming soon to you and all citizens of NEARverse! 
This week we are watching, reading, and listening to … 

Open Web Collective released several amazing episodes of their podcast. My favorite one is with Anton Bukov, founder of 1Inch exchange, who tells the story behind his journey from zero to hero in Crypto. You can subscribe to the podcast on Spotify or Apple Podcasts .

That’s it for this update. See you in the next one! 

Your friends,

NiMA and the NEAR team 
NEAR Community Update: February 28th, 2020
COMMUNITY
February 28, 2020
Welcome to the NEAR community update!

In this community update, we want to introduce Stardust, which is one of the projects that is building on NEAR. The Stardust API just went live, and within a few weeks of its launch, they are already supporting over 2,000 players daily. If you are creating a game, collectible art house, or any other business with NFTs (non-fungible tokens), you can use their API to help you leverage blockchain technology in under 10 lines of code. How cool is that? Reach out to Canaan to learn more and check out their website at https://stardust.gg/.

We are really excited to see what projects are building on NEAR. If you would like to contribute to NEAR or start your own project, we would love to hear from you. 

Content Highlight
We released a blog post in which Alex explains “How Randomness Beacons based on Threshold Signatures work”. Modern Proof-of-Stake protocols need a source of unbiased randomness. Dfinity pioneered the idea of using threshold signatures as such a beacon. This post explains in simple terms how such randomness beacons work. 

Engineering
The engineering work on the unbiased randomness beacon is in full swing. We pushed the cryptographic primitives and are almost done with the integration.

It will take time to stabilize the beacon, and the initial launch of NEAR will use a simpler beacon, in which block producers have one bit of influence. The simple beacon is done and pushed.

The team is largely in the stabilization mode, preparing to restart Stake Wars. In the past two weeks we have fixed a variety of issues:

Distribution of reward based on the stake, not seats:
https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/commit/3e6b14a5ba7112223e6aea69a4eda1991c873cf4
Fixing the pricing of storage:
https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/commit/4d9b1a45a2804ffed31f560807e2ce2757f0e352
Using the correct epoch for approvals on epoch switch:
https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/commit/fcb0746d9b629716e58b575638b14d0f4d36086d
Fixing an inconsistency in the epoch manager:
https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/commit/fc4e26852fbe40734fe6e2c3edfecfbbe3d49ce4
Fixing a bug with empty method names:
https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/commit/29cb2522870d4a33824a25f9e2fe8d897251a5b5
Batman (Alex’ dog) wishes you a great weekend!
How You Can Get Involved
Join theNEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website. 

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
NEAR Foundation Partners with Hibiki Run on Open Web Digital Gachapon
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 5, 2023
NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce a new strategic partnership with Hibiki Run, a platform lying at the nexus of innovation in music streaming and digital collectibles. Hibiki Run is revolutionizing music discovery by melding gaming thrills with crypto-driven Listen-to-Earn  (L2E) incentives. 

Together, NEAR Foundation and Hibiki Run will explore innovative paths for creating engagement between Web3 content creators and end users. With the Japanese “Gachapon” vending machine capsule toys as a model, the collaboration will meld NEAR’s cutting-edge blockchain technology with Hibiki Run’s expertise in digital music, art, and exercise, new opportunities in each vertical for creation, distribution, and ownership.

Bringing a ‘Digital Gachapon’ economy to the open web
With “Digital Gachapon”, NEAR and Hibiki Run will bring a powerful economic tool to creators. When interacting with a Japanese Gachapon, layers insert coins into the machine, turn the knob, and receive a capsule with a random item. 

Hibiki Run has innovatively digitized this exciting concept, integrating it with blockchain technology. In the digital Gachapon system, users utilize their tokens to receive digital items such as NFTs or unique digital assets — anything from exclusive music tracks, collectible art pieces, and rare gaming items, to access tokens for specific events or experiences. 

The digital Gachapon’s strength lies in its element of surprise and the potential for rare, high-value rewards — transforming the token expenditure into an exciting event while providing a way for creators to distribute their content in a fun and engaging manner. 

Hibiki Run and NEAR hope that with these types of innovative concepts, blockchain technology, and user-friendly interfaces, a new frontier of digital arts will open up. One that is interactive and immersive for creators and consumers alike. Like NEAR, Hibiki Run is committed to creating a decentralized, fair, and accessible ecosystem for artists. 


An Update On the NEAR Validator Upgrade
DEVELOPERS
January 28, 2022
At NEAR Foundation, our goal has always been to provide the best experience for validators, delegators, community members, and project builders. As part of NEAR Protocol’s goal to increase the number of validators securing the network and improve decentralization, we invited the community to submit an application through our call for applications on December 2, 2021. 

We received an overwhelming interest of more than 160 applications for delegation.

After the latest upgrade, which now allows up to 100 validators to the Mainnet and a lowered seat price of 64,000 $NEAR, many validators (73) managed to enter the validator pool with their own funds. The Foundation only had 27 seats available for delegation, which means that the selection process was extremely competitive. 

As NEAR Protocol is certified carbon neutral by South Pole, we ask validators to think through how they offset their validator operation’s carbon footprint, and communicate any CO2 offsetting that they implement on their end, such as using a renewable energy source to operate the nodes. An important criteria in the selection for delegation was ecological, and validators who took steps to offset their carbon footprint were selected.

Additionally, please note that the minimum criteria to qualify for delegation, such as keeping commission to 7% and maintaining high uptime on testnet node or mainnet node, is essential and the Foundation reserves the right to withdraw delegation and re-delegate to another validator. 

Additional Opportunities 
For any validators that were not selected in this round, there will be many more opportunities to be involved in the NEAR Ecosystem. 

NEAR Protocol will introduce a new type of validator, Chunk-Only Producer, in mid-2022 to further decentralize NEAR and increase the number of validators on Mainnet from 100 to 300. 

For those interested in being considered for a Chunk-Only Producer, please fill out this typeform.

For additional information about Chunk-Only Producers, please visit the Decentralize page. Additional details can be found on the NEAR protocol roadmap. 

Another route to helping secure the network is via the Open Shards Alliance. The Open Shards Alliance (OSA) and the GuildNet network have been an ecosystem guild since the Mainnet launch. It’s been a home for validators, those interested in becoming one, and new devs that enter the ecosystem. Ideas are bootstrapped in the OSA and often move on into their own projects. The OSA is comprised of technical aficionados, sysadmins, and devs. 

Please join the Open Shards Alliance server at the OSA Discord.
NEAR.ai → NEAR Protocol

COMMUNITY
August 23, 2018
A bit more than a year ago Alexander Skidanov and I started NEAR.ai. We strongly believed that program synthesis, the field that studies automated programming from a human specification, was going to transform software development and the world in general.

Program synthesis is aiming to generate computer programs from user specification, unlocking currently scarce skills to everybody in the world.
Last year at ICLR 2017 we saw a number of papers from various research labs and got really excited about the opportunity to bring that technology to the market. Both Alex and I had tried to explore program synthesis in our university days, but machine learning was so early back then that it wasn’t really possible to make progress.

After the conference, we imagined what the company would look like and realized that the first priority was to establish a benchmark for the community to use. Just as the ImageNet benchmark advanced the field of Computer Vision by leaps and bounds by giving practitioners a clear metric for comparison, we believed that a complex dataset would challenge the community as well as guide research.

We started NEAR.ai with the hypothesis that we could both expand the boundaries of research in the field of program synthesis and at the same time deliver a transformative product powered by this technology.

Alex and I have both participated in programming competitions (Alex won Gold in ACM ICPC 2008) and we naturally thought that the problems which were designed for human participants in these challenges would be a great starting point for computers doing program synthesis.

Programming competitions generate great data for machine learning. Each programming competition usually involves solving 5–10 problems of increasing difficulty stated in natural language. Problems are then solved by participants in various programming languages, producing the “parallel corpus” of description — code pairs.

Over a year, we collected more than 30k+ problems and 10M+ solutions. Many of the problems were hard even for a regular software engineer to solve, so we focused on problems that are simple (e.g. A and B on CodeForces or 250 on TopCoder). Even then, the task descriptions were complex: the variety of concepts and language used in the descriptions were too much for the model to capture. Furthermore, some problems required logical reasoning steps and external mathematical knowledge. To simplify the first task, we crowdsourced to the CodeForces community to rewrite the descriptions of the problems into a “solution description”.

Results published at ICML 2018 on NAPS dataset
We published part of the dataset we collected in our ICML 2018 paper “NAPS: Natural Program Synthesis dataset”. However, despite all this work and after running state-of-the-art models (which combined deep learning and regular search techniques) on this dataset , we found that results were far from usable in practice (around 12% for our best model).

Alongside the technical work, we gathered feedback from prospective users to make sure there was a real demand in the market for our solution. We built prototypes (without any ML) and tested the experience using Wizard-of-OZ (or human-in-the-loop) model.

After several iterations of this, we realized that ML, specifically natural language understanding, is not there yet.

Meanwhile, there were a few ideas that lead to our transition:

Given our work in program synthesis, our advisors suggested looking into the field of generating smart contracts for Ethereum. At the moment, it’s hard to program provable contracts for a regular engineer, an issue that can be effectively addressed by program synthesis.
The more we spoke with people who want to build applications, the more buzz we heard about building apps using blockchain to provide monetary incentives and better privacy & security.
Blockchain connects various devices into a single cloud that provides developers readily available database, compute and ease of transacting money
We sat down with our friends David “Pieguy” Stolp and Evgeny Kuzyakov, who have been playing with blockchain on the side over last year to learn more about this space. As we dug deeper into the rabbit hole, we realized both the opportunity and the limitations of the current blockchain systems.

For developers, blockchain provides the infrastructure that currently requires months to setup: partition resilient networking, always available database and compute, ease of GDPR compliance, and reduced need in local regulatory compliance. Additionally, entrepreneurs can come up with entirely new business models for businesses built on top of the blockchain.

For users, blockchain ensures data privacy and security. The smart contracts provide guarantees and can be studied (probably not by the user, but news about the malicious contract would spread really fast while data leaks in walled gardens can be covered up).

On the other hand, there is a reason why currently new applications are not built on the blockchain. Ethereum, the most popular decentralized app platform currently, has 14 transactions per second worldwide. I repeat, 14 API calls per second worldwide, the big part of which is taken by exchanges and speculative trading, making it more complicated to use. As a result, each transaction takes from minutes to hours to actually make it into the ledger.

There are newer protocols that suppose to fix the problem with the performance of blockchain:

EOS — recently launched and had one of the largest ICOs, but at the end uses 21 people to sign the blocks, meaning that these 21 people decide on how ledger will be composed. They know each other and have a huge monetary incentive to not slash for bad behavior, even when they had already approved “double spends” or if they decide to rewrite history.
IOTA — great idea from the distance: no blocks, each IOT device can post transactions and they get confirmed by others posting transactions. The problem lies in details : each node must do 5 minutes of proof of work to post the transactions (or they would spam it), which means that finality is >5 minutes. Additionally, each IOT device should maintain a huge part of the DAG that has been built or it will be easily tricked into approving “double spends”, which prevents the protocol from running on real IOT devices. To make things worse, there is Coordinator, a centrally maintained checkpointing system to prevent long-range attacks.
There are other protocols, many of which are still building their tech, but each and every one of them is missing a conceptual thing. All the successful platforms started by bringing developers closer to users, instead of building better tools for developers.

This is what gave birth to NEAR protocol:

Allow developers to build blockchain native mobile dApps and run it where the users are (mobile phones), giving developers a key onramp into dApps
Through sharding by state, allow the blockchain to scale linearly with the number of nodes in a network (we are targeting ~100k tps @ 1 million mobile nodes)
Allow blockchain entrepreneurs to quickly iterate and come up with successful business models since they both have scalable blockchain and easy access to users via first mobile-native blockchain
In other words: NEAR is a fully sharded, proof-of-stake blockchain that is specifically designed so mobile phones can fully participate from day 1.

To achieve this, we are redesigning every component of the protocol, from networking to consensus to sharding the state and execution to how user client works. You can read our first position paper and stay tuned for more: we will release sharding and consensus technical papers next.

We got together a dream team of builders: 3 ICPC Gold medallist (Mikhail was 2-time world champion), 3 early MemSQL (built sharding for the distributed database), 4 Xooglers (built distributed systems at scale).

Over the next several weeks, we will be sharing technical details, how we are thinking about the blockchain space and applications we believe our protocol will unlock.

To follow our progress you can use:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Medium — https://medium.com/nearprotocol,
Telegram — http://t.me/cryptonear,
Lastly,

https://upscri.be/633436/

 

Thanks to Alexander Skidanov, Maksym Zavershynskyi, Erik Trautman, Aliaksandr Hudzilin, Bowen Wang for helping to put together this post.
NEAR & Social Good: Bringing Web3 to the Fringes
COMMUNITY
July 21, 2022
Web3 is sometimes labeled niche and even elitist. Blockchain products can be costly, difficult to understand, and not everyone has easy access to the space. Think NFTs and their explosion. Media coverage would suggest a subculture where only celebrities with absurd amounts of cash blow it on cartoon ape pictures. Some even go so far as to say that Web3 is redundant and provides no value. 

But the mainstream narrative is only one narrow perspective—and an inaccurate one. 

Beyond the noise and hype, people are building real projects with real value. In Web3, everyone can find a place to build inclusive apps and communities. Ones that bring people or groups historically marginalized by tech and society into the space. 

And they’re using NEAR’s blockchain to do it. 

Africa’s underprivileged communities building on Web3
In the dusty city of Jos, central Nigeria, locals cram into a bright blue classroom to watch a flat screen television. It’s (online) class time. And in this part of the world where access to tech and the Internet is limited, students of all ages are learning something new and exciting—how to mint NFTs. 

​​Chapter One Foundation (C1) is a non-government organization built on NEAR, whose mission is to “spread positivity, opportunities and good art.” Through NFT sales, C1 helps aspiring artists get into recording studios, art facilities, and other spaces where they otherwise might have limited or no access. 

It works like this: the C1 team helps mint traditional artists’ work as NFTs using NEAR’s NEP-171 NFT standard. The work is then sold on Mintbase, where 70% goes to the artist. C1 reinvests the remaining 30% in the organization to help it grow and buy more resources for creatives. 

C1 co-founder, engineer, and musician Justin Burkholder says such an opportunity would not be possible without the Internet. In this case, the next iteration of the internet: Web3. 

“It creates revenue streams in art which would normally involve a lot of interference from big business without Web3 and NFT technology,” he says. “It acts as a natural onboarding mechanism to the Web3 ecosystem—and NEAR in particular—while giving people opportunities to generate revenue and become productive members of their communities.” 

The project is going well, too. People are gaining a greater understanding of Web3 and NEAR, and are even creating their own DAOs and building their own communities. 

Feeding communities with Web3-enabled urban farming
In Lisbon, Portugal, the vertical farm startup Raiz is feeding local communities, including homeless people. In vertical farming, crops are grown indoors, with plants stacked on top of each other using hydroponic barrels and a combination of natural light and dynamic LEDs. It requires less land, water and pesticides, making it a more efficient and sustainable way of food harvesting.

To grow its food, Raiz is working to use unused urban spaces. Just recently it set up its first flagship farm in Lisbon and has also been donating its surplus crops to the Salvation Army. But Raiz won’t stop there, says Raiz CEO Emiliano Guittierez. The project will eventually help poor, food-insecure communities become self-sustainable.  

“We aim to empower communities to build their own farms,” says Emiliano. “We can have investors from all over the world who can have a piece of ownership of farms, while people in Africa, South America, South East Asia or other developing parts of the world can deploy and build their own farms and have revenue from sales from the farms.” 

How does Web3 fit into this picture? It boils down to scalability and traceability. Using NEAR’s technology, Raiz is building a token model that represents the farms, allowing people to invest, have a stake, and keep the vertical farm network growing in a traceable manner. 

Further down the road, Raiz wants to introduce “impact tokens” that represent emissions avoided, and water and land saved as co-benefits.

Using DAOs for social good 
This past June in New York City, NEAR-based Primordia—the “DAO of DAOs”—launched its campaign to create 100 DAOs that will work toward significant global social impact. 

Launched by Kin DAO, a cooperative that helped over 55,000 people access critical services and resources during the pandemic before transforming into a project to help artists mint NFTs, Primordia is helping many little DAOs get set up to make a difference. 

Primordia co-founder and San Francisco-based artist Asya Abdrahman says these DAOs will use “NEAR Protocol’s ethical blockchain” to help “people typically marginalized, overlooked or excluded.”

Some of these DAOs are already up and running. EFAM DAO is currently working to give food and medicine to displaced people in the US, while Petgas DAO is building a fossil fuel sustainability project in Mexico. 

Why choose NEAR?
With a number of blockchains available, why are so many projects building on  NEAR to help marginalized communities? 

For one, it’s user friendly. A recurring theme for those building on NEAR’s blockchain is its ease of use. Web3 can be daunting, especially for those with no tech background.

“It’s an easy ecosystem to navigate and get involved with in transitioning from the Web2 to Web3,” says C1’s Burkholder. 

“Although the mainstream is still hesitant about getting digital wallets, NEAR wallets are the easiest digital wallets that I’ve so far experienced using,” adds Asya. 

NEAR is also the go-to blockchain for those concerned about the environment. Using a proof-of-stake (PoS) blockchain, it naturally uses less energy than proof-of-work chains, like Bitcoin. 

The NEAR Protocol is also climate neutral. Last year, the NEAR Foundation enlisted South Pole, a global climate solutions firm, to help reduce NEAR’s carbon footprint, and offset its carbon footprint with green projects. This makes NEAR a natural draw for socially conscious projects, as social good often intersects with ecological balance. 

Primoria’s Abdrahman adds that Ethereum, a blockchain she was using previously, kept promising to move to the more environmentally-friendly PoS chain, but it took too long. “For blockchain users that are concerned about climate-friendly solutions, NEAR is the go-to blockchain,” she adds.

All three projects also mention NEAR’s fast transaction speeds and low gas fees as attractive. Both are vital in onboarding people who aren’t exactly ‘tech-savvy,’ or who have typically been locked out from the Web3 world. Now they can take part. 
NEAR at ETHCC: Step into the Open Web on the BOS
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 13, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that NEAR will be returning to ETHCC 2023. The Foundation will be hosting a 2-day side event at the Paris tech conference on July 16-17.

NEAR experts will be on hand at ETHCC to share the latest updates for building apps on the open web  with the BOS  — an industry-first OS that makes it easy to use the tools you already know to build apps that engage users, while fostering an open web untethered from centralized platforms. 

Also, learn how your project can get funding and other support from NEAR Horizon, the new Web3 startup platform built on the BOS. 

NEAR at ETHCC — What to expect
NEAR is hosting a two-day ETHCC side event on July 16-17th, that will feature Technical Workshops (BOS) hosted by Pagoda, a Horizon Pitch Competition, small ETH research group workshops (invite only), and other speaker sessions, keynotes, and panels. You can’t forget about our exclusive networking and happy hours!

Learn from the best in the NEAR ecosystem about what makes the BOS so revolutionary. Ask your questions. Learn in-person. Make connections!

Agenda: NEAR at ETHCC
NEAR’s 2-day ETHCC side event will be located at the Museum National D’Histoire Naturelle: Verniquet. 

Day 1: Technical Day 

11am – 12pm: Breakfast bites & Networking – Cafe au laits and pastries
12-12:30pm: Stateless Validation – Invite Only Research Group 
12:30-1pm: Token Economics – Invite Only Research Group 
1-1:30pm: BOS Vision 
1:30-2pm: BOS for Devs 
2-2:30pm: BOS Tech Breakdown for Partners 
2:30-3pm: Simona/ETH Session 
3pm-4pm: Programming Break, Happy hour guests arrive 
4pm – 7pm: Happy Hour – Appetizers and drinks 
Structure for Day 2: Founders Day 

11am – 12pm: Networking and Co-working: Cafe au laits and pastries
12pm-12:30pm: Pantera Capital Workshop 
12:30-1pm: Proximity Workshop 
1-1:30pm: Simona/ETH Session 
1:30-2pm: Pitchfest Guests arrive 
2-4pm: Horizon Pitch Fest 
4pm – 7pm: Horizon Pitch Competition Happy Hour: Aperol spritz and appetizers
NEAR Speakers at ETHCC
Illia Polosukhin, CEO of Pagoda, Co-Founder of NEAR
Matt Stephenson, Head of Cryptoeconomics, Pantera Capital
Vy Le, Bain Capital
Kendall Cole, Co-Founder and Director of Proximity
Mya Shofany, Regulatory Lead, NEAR Foundation
Bowen Want, Director of Protocol, Pagoda
And more!

An Update on NEAR Ecosystem Block Explorers
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 10, 2023
TLDR: 

Explorer.near.org will be transitioned to the Explorer Selector by the end of November 2023. 
Public access to Explorer DB will be turned off on November 30, 2023. 
The Legacy NEAR Explorer will be turned off on January 31, 2024. NEARBlocks.io block explorer will continue to be actively maintained throughout this transition.
Pagoda’s core goal is to provide the NEAR community with high-quality, reliable, and innovative tools to build and interact with the blockchain while fostering an ecosystem of innovation. The legacy NEAR block explorer, hosted at explorer.near.org, was originally built by Pagoda as the first and only block explorer on the NEAR blockchain. In the early days of NEAR, it was important to bootstrap the necessary indexers, databases, and a block explorer to keep track of events on the blockchain. As alternative block explorers have now met and surpassed the functionality and reliability of the original NEAR Explorer, Pagoda has decided to turn off public access to Explorer DB and transition the legacy NEAR Explorer to the Explorer Selector by the end of November. 

This leads to good news for those looking for a reliable and high-quality explorer experience. The Invoker Labs team behind NEARBlocks.io launched the Explorer Selector, enabling users and developers to pick their favorite community-built explorers. For projects that link out to explorer.near.org, those links will continue to work, but they will first display the Explorer Selector, where the user can select their preferred explorer and continue to the transaction, block, or account. 

For feedback on the Explorer Selector and/or to get your NEAR block explorer project listed, please visit the NEARBlocks Explorer Selector GitHub Repo. By the end of November 2023, explorer.near.org will be the new home for the Explorer Selector.

Details of Transition Plan: 
October 10, 2023:
Notice within explorer.near.org explaining that it will be sunsetted by January 31, 2024, and linking to this blog post. The details of which Explorer DBs are sunsetting can be found in the NEAR documentation.
Direct communication with partners that rely on the explorer to plan interruption-free migration has begun.
NEARBlocks Explorer Selector is live. Please leave feedback directly in the NEARBlocks Explorer Selector GitHub Repo.
November/December 2023:
Shared Public access to the Explorer DB will be sunset on Thursday, November 30, at 12:00 p.m. PT. Check out ExplorerDB alternatives to maintain interruption-free service for your product.
Explorer.near.org will transition to the Explorer Selector. This will include the process to get other block explorers added to the Explorer Selector. 
The process for potential future explorers will be shared with the community to encourage diversity of tooling across NEAR. 
January 31, 2024:
The legacy NEAR Explorer will be removed from the Explorer Selector and turned off. 
April 30, 2024
ExplorerDB private API gated access will be completely shut off.
All wallets, tools, and projects that rely on the ExplorerDB must have migrated to avoid a loss of functionality.
If you have a product that may be affected by the sunset of Explorer or Explorer DB, please comment on this NEAR Social post from Pagoda or message @austinbaggio from the Pagoda product team directly on Telegram so they can ensure a smooth transition period. 
Coin98 Launches Decentralized Dapp Store for its 7 Million Users on NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S)
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 2, 2023
Coin98, the multichain wallet and DeFi platform, has today launched a decentralized dapp store for its 7 million users across 170 countries, built on NEAR. 

The company behind the Super app, designed to seamlessly connect a billion users to the crypto world safely and securely, has created an innovative marketplace that allows users to access a range of apps on prominent Ethereum Layer-2 ecosystems such as Polygon zkEVM, zkSync, Base, and Linea, greatly increasing accessibility and discoverability for users. 

The result is a both a web app and mobile app (details below) that provides a gateway to more than 70 chains and 15,000 dapps including cross-chain bridging, money markets, and decentralized exchanges — all in a single interface. Coin98 has achieved this by harnessing the power of NEAR’s B.O.S, the Blockchain Operating System. 

“At Coin98, we are dedicated to providing our users with the very best one-stop DeFi experience in our pursuit of the vision to make Web3 accessible for everyone.” says Thanh Le, Coin98 Founder. 

“With NEAR’s B.O.S, we can create a user-friendly interface thanks to its composability, while enabling decentralization under the hood,” he said. “Our dapp store offers hassle-free interaction with the most exciting L2s in the market. Soon, we will expand our collection to offer even more ecosystems and dapps, as B.O.S greatly reduces the development process, enabling a fast and scalable way to integrate new applications.”

Coin98 selected NEAR’s B.O.S thanks to the ease in the development process. All the widgets and components running on the B.O.S are fully composable, enabling developers to freely combine them to fit their needs. 

Coin98 utilized the B.O.S as a frontend layer to fully decentralize the user experience. Instead of routing parts of the process through centralized servers, all the featured dapps on the Coin98 gateway have frontend components whose code are stored on-chain on NEAR, which directly interact with the smart contracts on the original chains. No centralized servers are used.

“The NEAR ecosystem is excited to see Coin98 build their decentralized app store on the B.O.S and deliver much better experiences to their users,” says Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol. 

“This is exactly why we set out to build the B.O.S: because NEAR’s technology can help founders achieve decentralization and discoverability in parallel,” he added. “Now Coin98’s users can explore multiple L2 ecosystems all in one app, through the wallet of their choice, in seconds, with no complexity or switching costs. NEAR’s mission is to drive mainstream adoption of the Open Web through great user experiences and we hope more founders and projects will join us on the B.O.S.”

Coin98’s decentralized app store offering follows the launches of major B.O.S gateways by Polygon zkEVM and Mantle, two top L2 ecosystems. The success of these wallet gateway partners highlights the benefits that B.O.S helps Web3 founders deliver to end-users, demonstrating NEAR’s commitment to enabling products that simplify the blockchain experience and globally expand access to the Open Web.

Want to try the new B.O.S integration? Download the mobile app on Apple or Google Play store today.
NEARCON ’23: Developer, Founder, and Creative Talks You Shouldn’t Miss
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 31, 2023
NEARCON ’23 in scenic Lisbon, Portugal is your go-to event for everything AI, the open web, and more. Whether you’re a developer, entrepreneur, or artist, there’s a session for you. Web3 regulatory aficionados, we’ve got you covered too (more on that later). 

Here’s a rundown of sessions that are a must-see.

Developer track: build better on NEAR
NEAR: The Open Web Stack 

NEAR co-founder Illia Polosuhin reveals game-changing updates for the NEAR ecosystem. A lot of new and exciting NEAR products and tools are in the works for developers. So, if you’re a dev, you won’t want to miss this talk from Illia. 

Why Build Web3 Games 

Hosted by PlayEmber’s Hugo Furneaux, this panel dissects the massive potential of gaming on the open web. Learn about player-owned economies and why you should consider NEAR for your next gaming project. An essential session for forward-thinking game developers.

Unlocking NEAR Data 

Data extraction got you puzzled? Pavel Kudinov, senior engineering manager at NEAR, will walk you through using SQL queries on NEAR BigQuery Datasets and the NEAR Query API to build and analyze. This is the toolkit you’ve been waiting for.

Inside the BUILD Incubator 

Will Russell, Michael Yu, and Max Mizzi from student hackathon league Major League Hacking take a deep dive into the BUILD Incubator Fellowship. Hear firsthand experiences and gather invaluable insights that could jump-start your open web development journey.

Entrepreneurial track: jumpstart your journey
Building Web3 Communities 

This panel brings together experts from community building collective KryptoSeoul, decentralized identity project Galxe, NEAR DevHub, and Web incubator CryptoOracle Collective to discuss the art of fostering a vibrant, diverse community around any project.

CryptoEconomics 101 

Lisa Jy Tan, CEO of tokenomics consulting firm Economics Design, dives into the world of cryptoeconomics, helping you understand the fundamentals and real-world applications of economic principles, drivers, and incentives at play in the open web.

Hiring Smart in Web3 

Hiring in the open web is both exciting and fraught with potential landmines. Dan Eskow, founder of specialized Web3 talent agency Up Top, will share valuable tips on sourcing top talent, effective company branding, and red flags to look out for during the interview process.

Funding Trends in Web3 

A frontline perspective on open web investment from venture capital firms Accomplice VC, a_capital, RockawayX, and Generative Ventures. The expert VC panel will offer insights into funding trends and standout pitch decks to help founders stay ahead of the curve.

Creative track: redefining art, marketing, and gaming
Asia’s Impact on Web3 Gaming 

This panel explores Asia’s key role in Web3 gaming, particularly Korea’s leadership in the space. Hear from Jay Hoonjai Lee, CEO of Vortex Gaming DAO, and NEAR Korea Hub’s general manager Scott Lee on what the entire blockchain gaming space can learn from Asia.

Marketing in the Open Web 

Learn how decentralization and the open web is changing marketing and branding from Lex B., co-founder of NEAR Studio, a creative agency dedicated to the NEAR ecosystem. Everything you need to know about marketing in the open web, including real-life case studies and successes.

Advertising in Web3 

Anjali Young from Collab.Land, an innovative project helping implement token-gated communities, discusses how Web3 is transforming the advertising landscape, allowing for more effective brand-customer engagement and immediate feedback.

The Power of NFTs 

Explore how NFTs are driving decentralized creativity, redefining loyalty, and reshaping cultural norms. Hear from the likes of Wilson Lee, co-founder of blockchain-based carnival app TheFunPass™, and Stipe Plejic, CEO of social NFT marketplace Endemic.

NEARCON ‘23: get in on the action
If you’re passionate about the transformative power of the open web, NEARCON ’23 is a can’t-miss conference. We’ve carefully curated speaker tracks and sessions to fuel your imagination and skills, whether you’re a developer, entrepreneur, or creative mind. And the policy-minded need not fret, there’s a special Regulatory Track chock full of insights about evolving legal frameworks, governance, and more. 

With NEAR’s unique approach — super cheap, super fast, super secure — you’ll discover how the open web is solving real-world problems today.

So why wait? Register for NEARCON ’23 now to secure your spot!

Special offers are available for Ukrainians, students in Spain and Portugal, and hackathon registrants. Head over to those pages and register for your free NEARCON ‘23 pass!
Staking Rewards are now live on NEAR
COMMUNITY
October 21, 2020
Just one week after the NEAR community voted to enter Phase 2, NEAR Validators completed a major milestone: the upgrade to enable inflationary rewards. Now all NEAR token holders have the opportunity to earn Staking rewards from the network.

NEAR Protocol uses Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus to secure and validate transactions on the blockchain. The blockchain is run by a decentralized network of Validators, a community of operators who run the servers needed to keep the network operational.

Validators earn NEAR Token rewards for producing new blocks in the form of a static inflation rate of 4.5% each year.

Token holders who are not interested in being a Validator themselves can stake to a Validator’s staking pool and earn a portion of token rewards too. This incentivizes token holders to stay involved with the community and support Validators who are keeping the network running smoothly.

Inflationary Rewards Are Live
The community of NEAR Validators completed this update, activating the inflationary rewards for all token holders who stake their $NEAR.

This upgrade creates a unique opportunity for the community to potentially earn additional tokens: based on the current estimations, as much as 45 million NEAR tokens will be distributed to NEAR token holders who stake to active pools over the next 12 months.

Because NEAR utilizes Proof of Stake for consensus, inflation rewards are distributed to incentivize participation in the network through Staking. This means that every NEAR token in circulation can mint new tokens to its owner if they are staked to an active staking pool.

For more information on staking, create an account in the NEAR Wallet and check out our recent Wallet update post. Note: Today, in order to stake, you will need to withdraw your tokens from an exchange into a NEAR wallet.

Staking Rewards Calculations
It’s important to understand how the NEAR protocol calculates and distributes token rewards. The amount of staking rewards one can earn is proportionate to the total amount of tokens staked to the Network. For example, if there are 1000 total tokens staked and you have staked 100 of them, you can earn 10% of the total rewards which are distributed to the network. If there are 2000 total tokens staked and you have staked 100 of them, you’ll only earn 5% of the total rewards.

Today, NEAR staking pools are holding approximately 200 million NEAR tokens, so if you Stake 200 tokens (representing a share of 0.0001% of the total staked) you could receive ~45 newly generated tokens over one year, or 0.0001% of the ~45 million tokens minted by the network as inflationary rewards.

However, as is common with Proof of Stake Networks, as the network matures and more people become familiar with it, the total amount of staked tokens will increase. This means that while today Staking rewards are split between a pool of 200 million tokens, in the coming weeks, months, or years, that total amount of tokens staked could be as much as 600 or 700 million or even the full 1 billion NEAR tokens in existence. Of course there is no way to tell what the future will bring so we can only provide these calculations to explain how the protocol works at the technical level and can not guarantee that it will not change in the future. In theory, if 800 million tokens were staked instead of 200 million, you would receive ¼ of the amount of rewards as you would today with only 200 million tokens staked.

Keep this framework in mind as you consider staking to the network to earn Token Rewards on NEAR.

UPDATE: NEAR has been added to StakingRewards.com list of protocols with a staking calculator you can use to estimate potential rewards with additional information about staking.

Five things to know if you want to stake your tokens today
If you’re interested in staking, we suggest getting connected with our community on Discord. Here some important things to know:

Where to Stake: NEAR ecosystem is still evolving, guides and tooling for staking are still being created and wallets are being updated continually to improve your experience. In addition to the official NEAR wallet, you can also stake using Dokia Capital Staking application, and Moonlet’s Wallet.
How to Stake: There are two main ways to stake tokens: via your existing lockup contract (if you have one), or transferring tokens from exchanges to your personal wallet. Both require that you plan your token custody, as introduced by the token documentation here. Also, remember to leave at least 35 unstaked NEAR on your lockup contract, to pay for the storage and the gas fees, until the vesting is complete.
Staking for Decentralization: Staking is not only about the rewards, it is the basis for security and stability of the NEAR Protocol. To avoid centralization, split your stake between smaller staking pools instead of putting everything in the largest one. Community members like Zavodil Validator have created excellent alternatives to NEAR’s official explorer, embedding metadata from the active staking pools to help you choose which Validators to Stake with. Also, consider joining the #staking channel on https://near.chat and ask questions!
Choosing a Validator: You will notice each validator has a “Pool Fees” amount listed. This % is the amount of fees the Validator will keep to manage their operation. For example, if 100 token rewards are created, 10% of them (10 tokens) will be kept by the validator and 90% will go to the token holders that staked to that Validator. That said, Zero fees are not always good. Being a Validator requires time from qualified professionals operating high-quality infrastructure – which are expensive to maintain. If something so valuable is offered for free, ask questions. Also, Validators can change their fees at any time, so make sure to keep an eye on the fees in your pools and join Validator’s community chats or mailing lists for updates.
Unstaking: You can unstake your tokens anytime, and the minimum staking period is only 12 hours. However, you have to wait four epochs (equivalent to about two days) before being allowed by the protocol to withdraw your funds from the staking pool into your wallet. This waiting period is also necessary if you want to unstake and restake to a different Validator. It’s worth mentioning that staking is done via smart contracts, so it is possible that a bug in the Validator’s code may have an impact on the funds staked into that pool.
Wrapping up
In less than four weeks the NEAR Community has transitioned from a small group of validators taking the lead over NEAR Foundation and MainNet PoA, to a thriving ecosystem of tools, guides, and community resources launching every day. This is still very (very) early, which means that you will have to be a bit patient and open to providing constructive feedback to everyone involved. We are building this together, and in exchange for that, we are getting a first look at the growth and excitement in store for the NEAR Community.

Questions? Ideas? If you haven’t already, join the conversation in the #staking channel at https://near.chat!

If you’re just learning about NEAR for the first time and are seeing this post, we invite you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people who are excited for the future of the Open Web with NEAR. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.

Disclaimer: Please note that the statements expressed above about staking and rewards are not a recommendation by NEAR core team members or the NEAR Foundation to take any action with NEAR tokens. It is up to individual token holders to educate themselves on the risks and tax implications involved in Staking tokens relative to their own personal situations.
NEAR MetaBUILD 2: Join the Hackathon and Build an App
DEVELOPERS
December 21, 2021
NEAR MetaBUILD 2, a hackathon series where anyone can start building an app on NEAR, is nearly upon us. The first edition, held August 27th to September 19, was a smashing success, with a number of winners and prizes for work hacks, play hacks, and other categories. 

For NEAR MetaBUILD 2, which runs December 22nd to February 10th, 2022, we’re changing things up a bit. In place of work and play hacks, developers can choose to participate in the Welcome track or Natives track. This gives everyone, from novice blockchain builders to crypto-natives, an opportunity to help build on and expand the NEAR ecosystem, the Open Web, and Metaverse. 

How the NEAR MetaBUILD Hackathon Works
MetaBUILD hackathons are held for a couple of reasons. Part of the hackathon is to introduce both crypto-natives and non-blockchain users to the platform. But perhaps more importantly, MetaBUILD is a fantastic opportunity to showcase NEAR’s hassle-free wallet, lightning fast transaction speeds (thanks to our Nighshade sharding), global fiat on/off ramps, and the sustainable, carbon neutral blockchain. 

For now, MetaBUILD is a virtual hackathon. In the future, the format will be a hybrid physical-virtual contest. Throughout a MetaBUILD hackathon, developers learn to write, test, and deploy scalable decentralized applications (dapps) in mere minutes. 

MetaBUILD participants can use Rust or any other languages they already know to build DeFi, Web3, Gaming, Digital Art/Collectibles, infrastructure app and tools, or migrate an existing EVM app to NEAR. 

What to Build for MetaBUILD 2
As hinted at above, MetaBUILD developers can build an app using one of two tracks—Welcome or Native. The Welcome track is intended for those who have an app and want to integrate it into the NEAR blockchain. This track is also for non-blockchain developers (newbs) who either want to get familiar with the technology or have an idea for an app and want to learn how to develop on NEAR. The Natives track, on the other hand, is designed for developers who are already familiar with NEAR, Aurora, or Octopus blockchain, or who want want to build ecosystem and tooling apps (using blockchain data, not the technology).

To see the lists of build tasks and sponsors, visit the MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon homepage.

Bonus: Include the requirements of any of the Sponsor Challenges to be eligible for the applicable prizes. Sponsor Challenges from Brave and others will be announced shortly.

MetaBUILD 2 Submission Materials
There are currently over 300 participants for NEAR MetaBUILD 2. Up to $1,000,000 in prize money will be awarded to winning projects and teams. 

Below is the complete list of materials needed to submit your project for MetaBUILD 2:

Provide a URL to your Open Source code repository. All project repositories must be public and have an open source license.  
Select the Track your project is submitting into.
Include a video (about 3 minutes long) that demonstrates your submission. (Note: Videos must be uploaded to YouTube, Vimeo, or Facebook Video and made public.)
Optional: Select the Sponsor Challenge you are submitting your project into, if applicable.
Before submitting your materials, please read the full list of NEAR MetaBUILD 2 rules. 


Introducing 4 NEAR apps at Consensus Distributed
COMMUNITY
May 6, 2020
It’s only halfway through the week and it’s been busy at NEAR — the just-announced MainNet has now produced over 1.5 million blocks since genesis and we’ve hosted over a dozen talks, workshops and events as part of organizing the epic Ready Layer One conference (which ends today). This rolls into the RL1 Hackathon over the next two weeks and… we’ll probably find time to sleep someday.

At this point, we’ve told the story of Open Money, Open Finance and the Open Web but the best way to make this concrete is to see real examples. With MainNet out, we want to begin surfacing some of the fantastic applications that are building on NEAR and use them to help explain why the NEAR platform is so special.  That’s why we’re firing up the coffee pot for another leap onto the virtual stage to showcase the following teams at next week’s Consensus: Distributed conference:

1inch Exchange (Anton Bukov), a decentralized exchange (DEX) aggregation platform which allows teams to find the best prices on the market. Typically, trying to move high volumes on DEXes results in poor fills and price slippage but they help spread the volume out across multiple exchanges to prevent this. Their platform relies on fast and low cost transactions, which is part of what brought them to build on NEAR.
TessaB (Tanuj Nigam), a company which facilitates the secondary market for mobile devices by removing multiple middlemen from the process. They track provenance, power financial transactions and offer on-device app stores using the blockchain.
Stardust (Canaan Linder), a platform which allows game developers to both increase revenue and improve their players’ experiences by easily adding a secondary marketplace for digital goods. NEAR gives them a set of UX tools and flexible accounts that no one else can so they can offer the end-users of their game developers a fantastic experience while introducing them to blockchain.
Flux (Peter Mitchell), a protocol which powers easy markets for a variety of applications including helping Twitch streamers create live betting experiences around their streams. NEAR gives them performance and usability.
Mark your calendar!
NEAR and the four Open Web builders will be presenting at Consensus: Distributed on

Tuesday, May 12, 2020 @ 6-7pm EST

At the event, we’ll provide a brief overview of the NEAR MainNet, take questions from the audience and then allow the projects to shine:

Changelog: The NEAR MainNet is Live (Illia Polosukhin, Co-founder of Near Inc)
Construct: The Open Web Collective with Anton @ 1inch, Tanuj @ TessaB, Canaan @ Stardust and Peter @ Flux.
Closing remarks
In addition, Amos Zhang (Strategic Lead – China @ NEAR) from our team will join forces with Jieli (Jerry) Li (Ant Financial & Alibaba), Harriet Cao (Co-founder @ IRISnet), and Jan Xie (Co-founder @ Nervos ) on a session hosted by Coindesk China at Consensus Distributed. The session will start at 1:00 AM – 2:00 AM EST (or 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Beijing Time) on May 12th.
NEAR Foundation’s Response to the UK Crypto Asset Consultation
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 3, 2023
Introduction
The NEAR Foundation (the “Foundation”) submits this letter in response to the consultation and call for evidence by His Majesty’s Treasury (“HMT”), concerning the ‘Future Financial Services Regulatory Regime for Crypto Assets’[1] in the United Kingdom (“UK”) (“Consultation”). The Foundation believes that a clear and proportionate regulatory framework is essential for the meaningful global adoption of Web3 technology and welcomes HMT’s proactive engagement with industry participants towards achieving this goal.

The Foundation is a Swiss-based regulated non-profit organisation created in September 2019, with a core mission (and legal mandate) of supporting the development and growth of the NEAR protocol (the “NEAR Protocol”) and its associated ecosystem (as well as the global adoption of open-web technologies more generally). The NEAR Protocol is a permissionless, open source, decentralised, proof-of-stake blockchain network.[2] There are more than 550,000 participants in the NEAR Protocol ecosystem, including over 4,000 developers and 1,000 projects building on the NEAR Protocol.

A key aspect of the Foundation’s mission is advocating for clear, fair, and proportionate regulation of Web3 technology, and we recently publishedPolicy Principles[3] setting out the core values driving our advocacy work. We believe that the policy outcomes advanced by HMT are reasonable and capable of being achieved in the Web3 context with the right approach (i.e. regulatory equivalence is possible). In fact, we believe that many of Web3’s core characteristics (particularly decentralisation, disintermediation, transparency and immutability) make it uniquely well-suited to effectively achieving these policy outcomes. 

The Consultation comes at a key crossroads for Web3 in general and Decentralised Finance (“DeFi”) more specifically. While DeFi currently represents a small fraction of the Traditional Finance (“TradFi”) markets, its potential for growth and broader positive impact is significant. As of January 2023, total volume on decentralised exchanges (“DEXes”) (a proxy for the total DeFi market cap) stood at $56 billion,[4] compared with the total value of traded shares on the largest exchanges worldwide of $41.8 billion as of June 2022[5]. As of 2022, there exists roughly 4.8 million DeFi users globally, and within Europe, the UK is marked as the most prominent DeFi player.[6] Beyond DeFi, UK’s cryptoasset activity is significant, with the UK occupying a place among the top 20 nations with high adoption of crypto activity.[7] 

Given its comparative infancy, DeFi offers an opportunity for regulators to establish  proportional, adaptable, and clear regulatory frameworks that attract investment, job creation, and innovation to the UK and ultimately position the UK as a leader in the evolving DeFi landscape.

Chapter 11 Responses
36. Do you agree with the assessment of the challenges of regulating DeFi? Are there any additional challenges HM Treasury should consider?

 The Foundation broadly agrees with the challenges of regulating DeFi listed by HMT in the Consultation.[8] When compared to TradFi, DeFi raises different risks, involves different actors, and engages different policy considerations. While DeFi systems can be built to replicate the functional result of some existing TradFi activities, DeFi and TradFi use different technology and employ different legal and social/incentivisation arrangements. A different regulatory approach is therefore required.

This different regulatory approach is likely to, and should at least in many respects, share the same principles and goals as existing TradFi regulation. However, it is essential for any effective DeFi regulatory framework to recognise and facilitate DeFi’s unique features (particularly decentralisation and disintermediation). Failure to do so risks stifling innovation and undermining the very policy objectives HMT is seeking to achieve.

At a fundamental level, TradFi relies on rights and obligations defined by external legal contracts and laws, while DeFi operates on the basis of powers and incentives defined by internal deterministic peer-to-peer or peer-to-software systems. These are fundamentally different approaches to solving the problem of trust in transactions, with different risk profiles and regulatory outcomes.

It is also important to note that while DeFi can be built to replicate certain TradFi activities, DeFi can be structured to operate in a fundamentally different way to achieve those outcomes. For example, consider a ‘transaction’ in the DeFi context. Even a very basic DeFi transaction – e.g. transferring cryptoassets from one cryptoasset wallet to another – involves several different actors (end-user(s), network miner/validator, network relayer, and possibly many others depending on the underlying blockchain network and the apps/services which the end-user opts to use) and complex technological processes (broadcasting a signed data package to a network’s memory pool (“Mempool”), selecting data packages/transactions from the Mempool by network miner/validators based on cryptoasset incentive structures, creating of new network blocks etc.).

Consider further a ‘lending’ transaction in the context of a DeFi interest rate protocol. Although the term ‘lending’ is broadly used and easily understood in common parlance, it misrepresents the economic activity that these protocols enable. Users of these protocols “do not extend credit or incur debt, which are the essential characteristics of a loan transaction,”[9] and instead earn interest securely through overcollateralization and free market liquidation, not through lending. While collateralization exists in both DeFi and TradFi, the latter still depends on credit and debt relationships, making DeFi ‘secured loans’ fundamentally different from TradFi.  Moreover, DeFi interest rate protocols are permissionless — enabling pseudonymous participation — and employ a “peer-to-pool” model, making it hard or impossible to directly identify borrowers. Because DeFi transactions are conducted on a “peer-to-pool” or “peer-to-protocol” basis, meaning users supply and borrow fungible assets to and from a pool of liquidity stored within the protocol, not to and from specified counterparties, suppliers rely on overcollateralization and liquidation to ensure that they can withdraw their assets at any time, and not on trust of a counterparty.

Grafting the language and concepts of TradFi onto Defi — including by mislabeling DeFi transactions as loans — can lead to misunderstandings and muddy the distinction between DeFi and TradFi, making it difficult for regulators to design appropriate and proportionate frameworks for DeFi. Any comparison of DeFi to TradFi should therefore carefully analyse the different participants, systems, technologies and risks involved.[10] 

We broadly agree with the different characteristics of DeFi identified by HMT in the Consultation. We wanted, however, to highlight two of DeFi’s defining characteristics that are particularly relevant from a regulatory perspective and should inform any proposed cryptoasset regulatory framework:

Decentralised. Decentralisation (as HMT appropriately notes[11]) can exist on a spectrum and in our view is most appropriately defined in terms of various forms of intrinsic network power/control being more or less distributed (we discuss these different forms of network power/control in more detail below). Where a project sits on the ‘spectrum’ of decentralisation is impacted, among other things, by factors such as decisions subjected to cryptoasset holder voting, governance participants, cryptoasset ownership distribution, the scope and extent of the original development team’s involvement, whether authority to alter, pause or shut down the protocol is present, the presence of a multi-signature wallet (“Multisig”) with elevated privileges, the members of the Multisig, the responsibility for addressing security issues, and treasury management methods. Decentralisation should be a critical aspect of any approach to cryptoasset regulation because it can impact the nature, number and geographic distribution of participants involved in a DeFi system (a much larger, distributed, fluctuating body of actors) as compared to any TradFi system.
Dis-intermediated. Fully transparent/auditable ledgers and deterministic smart contracts enable trustless (or significantly trust-minimised) interactions and so facilitate systems that are resistant to extrinsic influence or control. This underpins two key features of DeFi: (i) the self-custody of assets; and (ii) the ability to transact on a peer-to-peer basis. Together these features enable genuine user autonomy and also change the potential risks which users are exposed to; and so (as with decentralisation) a thorough understanding of DeFi’s dis-intermediation features should inform any approach to cryptoasset regulation.
Decentralisation and dis-intermediation in DeFi have the potential to offer powerful advantages over TradFi, creating robust systems that can enable a more secure, transparent, and efficient financial landscape. Key benefits of DeFi include reduced information asymmetry, increased transparency, faster settlements, enhanced liquidity, innovation enablement, streamlined processes, automation, lower transaction costs, and improved user control. By leveraging these attributes when regulating DeFi, HMT can fulfil its overarching objectives of fostering innovation, encouraging growth and competition while protecting the market and its users. Moreover, DeFi has the potential to benefit a wider range of participants and surpass some of the known limitations of TradFi.[12] 

By way of example, the recent collapse of FTX (previously one of the largest centralised cryptoasset exchanges in the world) has exposed the risks and challenges of centralised actors in the cryptoasset space. As an initial matter, customers did not control or self-custody their assets at FTX (and the use of customer funds by FTX remains at issue).[13] FTX was also a highly centralised organisation, with most of its control and decision-making allegedly concentrated in the hands of its founder and former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, and other key individuals.[14] FTX also had a close and opaque relationship with Alameda Research, a trading firm also run by Bankman-Fried, which held a large position in FTT, the native token of FTX.[15] FTX offered bundled service offerings, such as derivatives, futures, options, and leveraged tokens, which increased its complexity and risk exposure.[16] FTX faced a liquidity crisis, a possible hack, and criminal charges against Bankman-Fried and FTX’s subsequent collapse significantly impacted many other centralised cryptoasset actors.  

By contrast, DeFi networks and systems have demonstrated their resilience and strength during this market shock. As J.P. Morgan noted in a weekly report following the FTX collapse: “while the news of the collapse of FTX is empowering crypto sceptics, we would point out that all of the recent collapses in the crypto ecosystem have been from centralised players and not from decentralised protocols”.[17] Moreover, the turmoil in centralised exchanges wrought by the FTX collapse reinforced the clarion call for self-custody embodied by the crypto ethos of “not your keys, not your coins”, leading market participants to seek out decentralised alternatives.[18] 

We note that a large part of HMT’s focus in the Consultation is on centralised cryptoasset actors and intermediaries, and we believe this is appropriate because it is in the context of large centralised actors that systemic risks are most likely to arise, engendered by (for example) the potential for conflicts of interest, anti-competitive behaviours (including market manipulation), and a lack of transparency. Similar risks can potentially exist in the DeFi context where some projects might be less decentralised and/or dis-intermediated because (for example) certain forms of intrinsic network power are concentrated in the hands of a small number of actors. This could lead to potentially harmful concentrations of power within DeFi networks which we believe are an appropriate focus for regulation (and which the disclosure and registration approaches to regulation described below are intended at least in part to mitigate).

Regulators and academics along with the Web3 and DeFi industry globally have been considering how best to protect against the potentially harmful concentrations of power discussed above (particularly in the early stages of a network’s development) while still facilitating and protecting DeFi’s unique features and ensuring that responsible innovation can continue to take place.

Some examples that are already being explored and could serve as a useful starting point to any Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”)-based registration and disclosure regime include: (i) a tailored ‘lite’ registration and disclosure regime for cryptoasset issuance by initial development teams (which could serve as a ‘lite’ version of a FMSA-based registration & disclosure regime for cryptoassets); (ii) a safe harbour regime; (iii) self-regulatory approaches; (iv) new technologically-mediated approaches to disclosure such as Disclosure non-fungible tokens (“NFTs”) and Decentralised Autonomous Organisations (“DAOs”).

Before looking at examples of each of these potential approaches in more detail, it is worth noting in what follows that we focus on approaches emphasising disclosure and reporting, rather than authorisation-based approaches. This is driven by the fact that DeFi’s decentralised character gives rise to novel jurisdiction issues, given that the potentially large and constantly fluctuating body of network participants can be operating from multiple (and constantly fluctuating) jurisdictions; for which there is no direct analogue in the TradFi context.  

We would therefore caution HMT against implementing an authorisation-based regime in the DeFi context because in our view that would risk: (i) requiring network participants to go through the (potentially complex and costly) exercise of determining whether certain DeFi-related activities in certain jurisdictions require authorisation, thereby potentially creating ‘moats’ where only more sophisticated, well-resourced actors can participate in DeFi systems; (ii) requiring DeFi projects to evaluate potential authorisation requirements across a large (and constantly fluctuating) number of jurisdictions in a way that TradFi projects do not; and (iii) perhaps most importantly of all, compromising DeFi’s inherently permissionless, cross-border nature and so undermining decentralisation and dis-intermediation.

Instead, we believe that a tailored disclosure and registration regime would help to preserve DeFi’s unique features (decentralisation and dis-intermediation) while also reducing information asymmetry, and enhancing transparency and the UK’s attractiveness as a jurisdiction for DeFi entrepreneurs, projects and investors.

38. Do you agree with HM Treasury’s overall approach in seeking the same regulatory outcomes across comparable “DeFi” and “CeFi” activities, but likely through a different set of regulatory tools, and different timelines?

We broadly agree with HMT’s overall approach. We refer to our answer to question 36 above, and in particular would emphasise the fact that any comparison of DeFi to CeFi/TradFi should be approached with caution on the basis that such comparisons are a useful heuristic but do not capture and risk obscuring DeFi’s qualitative differences. We believe that it is possible to achieve HMT’s desired overarching policy objectives — innovation, competition, consumer protection, financial stability and market integrity — in the DeFi context provided any regulatory framework proposed by HMT reinforces (rather than undermines) DeFi’s essential features.

Indeed, it is these essential features that make DeFi a potentially more effective substrate for achieving policy objectives than TradFi — given features like transparency, auditability, decentralisation, and disintermediation can be built in and deterministically enforced by smart contracts in a trustless (or significantly trust-minimised) manner — which, in turn, can create an environment where financial regulations can be applied and monitored more efficiently and effectively.

As we have noted above, opting for a ‘tech-agnostic’ approach in regulating DeFi presents obvious challenges and limitations, such as creating a framework that may not fully recognize or accommodate DeFi’s technical idiosyncrasies, or fails to provide adequate certainty for market participants. To address these challenges, policymakers and regulators should craft adaptive and flexible regulations suited to the unique characteristics of DeFi while working to keep pace with its technological advancements. This approach will help ensure that the regulatory framework remains effective and supportive of DeFi’s future development, ultimately promoting a robust, transparent, and secure DeFi ecosystem, which will evolve with DeFi technology and mature over time. Further details on our suggested approach below.

Tailored Disclosure Regimes

Improved and tailored disclosure in DeFi would be an important first step towards greater protection of DeFi participants. As an initial matter, it is important to recognise that disclosure in equity markets is ill-suited to elicit material information for token purchasers because such disclosure does not “cover a number of features unique to digital assets that would undoubtedly be considered important when making an investment decision”.[19] Instead, traditional disclosures are “designed for traditional corporate entities that typically issue and register equity and debt securities” and “focus on disclosure about companies, their management, and their financial results”.[20]  Tailored disclosure regimes exist elsewhere, for example, with respect to asset-backed securities.[21] 

Several models for bespoke cryptoasset disclosures already exist. There have been domestic and international legislative proposals, such as European Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA) legislation,[22] recent bills in the US Congress,[23] the safe harbour proposals set out below, and other proposals by academics and lawyers including those referred to in this response.

Potential disclosure elements for DeFi platforms could incorporate governance tokenholding data and any changes to this data (like listed equity holdings), and information about admin keys or other centralised controls, their scope, and arrangements. Additionally, such disclosure can include information regarding source code, token economics(e.g., asset supply schedule or protocol governance), information regarding the development team, network development plan, prior token sales, and trading platforms listing the tokens.[24] Another related element could require ongoing reporting of decentralisation efforts. This could encompass a variety of areas, such as the distribution of network nodes or the degree of participation from community members.

Another important aspect of disclosure could centre around the technology component of each network. This could include regular code audits to ensure that the technology is secure, reliable, and able to perform its intended function. Additionally, the governance of the token could be subject to voting audits to ensure transparency in the decision-making process of each network. In some cases, financial reporting could also be required under a disclosure-based regime. This could include the provision of proof-of-reserves to demonstrate that the network has sufficient funds to back its operations, as well as the disclosure of revenue and expenses to provide insight into the financial health of the network.[25] 

Mandated disclosures should also include a set of risk factors for the review of participants in DeFi, including risks such as regulatory, cybersecurity, operational, liquidity, smart contract, and interoperability risk. Such risk factors should be informed by guidelines crafted for DeFi that are similar to the European Securities and Market Authority ‘Guidelines on risk factors under the Prospectus Regulation’[26] and the Financial Conduct Authority’s Prospectus Directive under FSMA,[27] and may be crafted both by regulators or in connection with potential self-regulatory initiatives discussed below.

Potential Safe Harbour Approaches

A potential safe harbour could provide numerous benefits by fostering innovation and flexibility alongside regulatory certainty (and could incorporate elements of the tailored disclosure regime referenced above). It has the added advantage, as compared to sandbox approaches, of providing a clear rules-based framework to the industry that is applicable in the same way for all actors (while sandboxes are typically more discretionary in how they operate and so can often have a more limited scope; although in our view sandboxes do also have their merits). Several proposals have been made along these lines that are worthy of consideration and although they were not drafted with the UK regulation in mind, they are good source of information to guide HMT’s approach: (i) Hester Peirce’s “Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0” published in April 2021[28]; (ii) the Responsible Financial Innovation Act (“RFIA”)[29]; and (iii) LeXPunk’s “Safe Harbour X/Reg X”[30]. All of these approaches could also include a cross-border or interoperable sandbox approach.

SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce’s Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0 provides a time-limited exemption for cryptoassets, affording initial development teams a three-year period to establish their networks as functional or decentralised, while exempting them from US federal securities registration. The exemption would continue to apply provided that the developer (i) complied with anti-fraud rules, (ii) provided semi-annual updates to the plan of development disclosure and a block explorer and (iii) made certain disclosures, including an explanation of governance mechanism for implementing changes to the protocol); a block explorer, and sufficient information for a third party to create tools for verifying the transaction history of the token. Lastly, upon the cessation of the grace period, the developer would be required to draft and disclose an exit report explaining why the network is sufficiently decentralised and the token is not a security (or otherwise register the token as a security).

An analogue of the Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0 is the Safe Harbor X proposal by LeXpunK Army —  a community of lawyers and technologists who advocate for decentralised and peer-to-peer protocols — published in April 2022, which aims to address three key issues that the authors believe have impeded the adoption of Commissioner Peirce’s proposal:

The proposal’s focus on tokens without distinguishing between different types of transactions.
The wide-ranging exemption covering the entire three-year network maturation period.
The risk of regulatory arbitrage and unfair advantages for traditional or incapable issuers.
SafeHarbor X aims to address these concerns by modifying the approach in three key ways:

Focusing on exempting “qualifying distributions” of tokens to users and builders, rather than the token itself, allowing regulators to address potential abuses or unanticipated issues.
Requiring eligible projects to be permissionless, open source, autonomous ‘public goods’ software to qualify for the exemption.
Mandating an initial development team to be subject to a 12-month post-public-launch lockup for their autonomous crypto tokens, similar to the holding period for restricted securities under Rule 144.[31]
LeXpunK have also proposed a targeted disclosure and registration regime called Regulation X (“Reg X”)[32], which is designed to work alongside the SafeHarbor X proposal by affording projects that are not able to meet its (deliberately) strict requirements. The proposed Reg X offering exemption allows token projects to raise up to $75 million from accredited investors and up to $15 million from non-accredited investors in a 12-month period, subject to certain disclosure,anti-fraud requirements, and trading restrictions. The disclosure requirements include providing information about the network, its purpose, development plan, token economics, governance, risk factors, and insiders. The secondary market beneficial ownership reporting regime would require persons and groups who constitute large holders at the time of offering requiring them to file reports where ownership thresholds are exceeded and exit reports where holdings drop below the reporting threshold. Additional disclosures regarding extrinsically affiliated persons are also expected to be developed under the proposed framework, as well as to comply with certain trading restrictions and reporting obligations.The anti-fraud requirements require projects to comply  with the federal securities laws and regulations, as well as adopt a code of conduct and dispute resolution mechanism.

The trading restrictions include limiting the amount of tokens that can be sold by insiders and affiliates in any 90-day period, and requiring them to file a notice of their intended sales with the SEC. The reporting obligations include filing annual and quarterly reports with the SEC, as well as disclosing any material events or changes that affect the network or the tokens.[33]

By contrast to the Safe Harbor 2.0 and Safe Harbor and Regulation X proposals, the Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act (RFIA)[34] aims to establish comprehensive disclosure requirements for ancillary assets[35] and their issuers. It mandates a one-year period following the submission of disclosure, during which issuers must detail their plans to support or discontinue the use and development of the ancillary asset, as well as information about markets and platforms utilising the asset.

Both of these proposals should be analysed in the context of US security laws and its unique applications (and, in particular, the classification of cryptoassets for the purposes of US securities laws which has proven to be an extremely complex and somewhat controversial issue in the jurisdiction). The RFIA necessitates extensive corporate information about the issuer, including their history, experience, legal proceedings, and risk factors associated with the ancillary asset. While it shares some commonalities with Hester Peirce’s Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0 in terms of promoting transparency and addressing regulatory challenges, the RFIA has a broader scope and encompasses various aspects related to ancillary assets, including ownership information and related person transactions.

HMT could also consider encouraging the adoption of a cross-border sandbox for DeFi. For example, the FCA is part of the Global Financial Innovation Network (“GFIN”)  — a collection of 20 regulators from countries including the UK, Canada, USA, and Australia — enabling firms to test innovative financial products, services, business models or regulatory technology. The GFIN model has not proven easy to implement. Indeed, in its first cross-border testing cohort, a total of 38 applications were received with only two firms successfully taking forward propositions to the live testing phase given the failure to implement testing plans that satisfied each jurisdiction’s criteria. Accordingly, it is crucial that any cross-border or interoperable sandbox format be attempted first with jurisdictions that are taking a similar approach to the DeFi space.

Within a cross-border sandbox or collaborative law-making framework, regulators  could work together to clarify the treatment of various DeFi components, such as DAO frameworks[36], decentralisation models, risk factors and other disclosure requirements, KYC requirements, and the treatment of proof-of-stake versus proof-of-work networks.[37] 

The safe harbour and cross-border sandbox approaches referenced above can be a valuable addition to any FMSA-based registration and disclosure regime for cryptoassets. Similarly, a RegX type approach serves as an intriguing ‘lite’ version of the same registration and disclosure framework that can facilitate access to capital for innovative DeFi projects. These methods are promising and potentially effective ways to achieve desired policy outcomes while fostering responsible innovation in the crypto space. By incorporating these approaches, regulators can promote the development of new, groundbreaking technologies in the cryptoasset ecosystem in a responsible and compliant manner.

Self-Regulatory Approaches

The self-regulating nature of DeFi protocols also makes them well-suited to governance by self-regulation, whether in a traditional or DAO form. Such a self-regulatory body could, among other things,  establish disclosure standards for DeFi to promote investor protection. These standards could include, for example, disclosure standards regarding the operation of any DeFi protocol and potential risks to users, standards relating to decentralised governance, decentralisation policies, terms of service and terms of use, risk assessment, safety modules and self-insurance, open source standards, and listing standards that seek to limit accessibility.

Technologically-mediated approaches to disclosure

Technologically-mediated approaches to disclosure also present new opportunities for developing methods of verifying knowledge for DeFi participants. In his article “Introducing Disclosure NFTs, Disclosure DAOs, and Disclosure DIDs”[38] and “Disclosure, Dapps, and DeFi”,[39] Professor Christopher Brummer introduced two technologically-mediated approaches to DeFi disclosure of particular interest, both of which draw upon DeFi’s unique strengths: (i) disclosure NFTs or decentralised identities (DIDs) and (ii) disclosure libraries.

Disclosure NFTs can be employed to validate a user’s engagement with and understanding of the available disclosures. Users would interact with the available disclosures by reading or navigating through them and then complete tests or games designed to assess their comprehension. Upon successful completion, unique disclosure tokens would be issued, serving as proof that the user has thoroughly engaged with and internalised the relevant disclosures. These tokens, stored in the user’s digital wallet, could offer additional benefits, such as governance rights or access to specific services within the project, further incentivizing users to engage in the disclosure process.

DeFi disclosures could also be linked to unique decentralised identifiers (“DIDs”) tied to a given individual. A DID is a unique text string that links an individual or entity to a set of data (“DID Document”) describing them. This data contains public keys, verification methods, and ways to communicate or interact with them, including network addresses like HTTP URLs. The DID Document acts as an authentication tool for the person or entity and helps build trust in their interactions. Upon completing disclosure comprehension, an individual’s DID could be provisioned with a credential to verify successful engagement. This credential can be stored off-chain in a personal datastore, wallet, or integrated into a digital driver’s licence as part of the individual’s disclosure DID. The information would be self-sovereign, granting the holder control over data access and usage.

Decentralised Apps (“Dapps”) could verify delivery and engagement with disclosure, which may occur off-chain as in the Disclosure NFT example. Once confirmed, users can transact on the Dapp or others with similar risk profiles or disclosures, creating a decentralised, immutable chronological event record providing metadata related to past disclosure engagement.

Disclosure Libraries aim to create a more collaborative and accessible environment for developing DeFi-specific disclosures, built as an online repository. Disclosure libraries could function as a platform where developers, lawyers, and nonprofits come together to access, share, and contribute to open-source disclosures for Web3 applications. These disclosure libraries could also form a repository for DeFi self regulatory initiatives efforts. These libraries would lower the entry barrier for startups, reduce development costs, and foster a culture of transparency, collaboration, and shared expertise within the ecosystem. The LeXpunK github repository on open source law, which includes open source templates and other materials for DAOs, is an example of how such a library could be structured.[40]

39. What indicators should be used to measure and verify “decentralisation” (e.g. the degree of decentralisation of the underlying technology or governance of a DeFi protocol)?

We refer to our response to question 36 above.

As discussed above, decentralisation is most appropriately defined as the distribution of various types of intrinsic network power across participants in DeFi systems. A thorough understanding of decentralisation is essential for crafting an effective DeFi regulatory framework, as the nature and level of decentralisation fundamentally alters the number, nature and distribution of participants, and the way DeFi systems operate.

There are various types of intrinsic network power, including:

Validator Power: The power to read or access a blockchain network’s data. The validator power in open, permissionless blockchain networks is typically quite decentralised because the data is freely available to anyone (but this might not be the case in private, permissioned blockchain networks which we are not considering in our responses here). The more decentralised the validator power, the less likely any single validator can control or manipulate the network, leading to reduced risks of fraud or collusion. Elements that can be assessed to evaluate the decentralisation of validator power include node count and distribution of ownership of these nodes..

Consensus Power: How agreement is reached among network participants on the validity of transactions and the overall state of the blockchain, including the power to write data to the blockchain in what is typically a two step process of (a) proposing a block; and (b) that proposed block being accepted by the other network nodes because it is consistent with the network’s consensus mechanism. Decentralisation in consensus power ensures that no single entity can dictate or manipulate the decision-making process, resulting in a robust and secure network.

Protocol/Client Power: Protocol/client power refers to the control over the protocols and software clients used in DeFi networks. Decentralising protocol/client power through open-sourcing mitigates the risks of single points of failure, monopoly power, or a centralised entity driving the direction of the network without consideration for its users and stakeholders.

Governance/User Power: This pertains to the influence users and stakeholders have over the rules, policies, and decision-making within a DeFi network. A decentralised governance structure, where users have a say in shaping the network’s future, ensures a more inclusive, democratic, and responsive system, which better aligns with the interests and needs of its participants. Related to governance and user power is contributor diversity, referring to the number and variety of developers who contribute to the source code of a DeFi network. A higher contributor diversity indicates a more decentralised software development process and reduces key person or team risk arising from dependence on a single developer or a core team.

We note that there is not yet a standardised or industry-accepted set of standards for evaluating and/or verifying decentralisation, although there have been and will no doubt continue to be efforts to create a standardised framework.[41] The various disclosure approaches outlined in this response would be extremely helpful in this regard by helping to enhance transparency and reduce information asymmetry. As discussed above, we agree with HMT’s observation that decentralisation exists on a spectrum; and we would stress that, although some projects may claim to be decentralised when they are not, this does not mean that no projects are genuinely and substantially decentralised. We refer to our response to question 36 and, in particular, our discussion with respect to the critical role that decentralisation (and dis-intermediation) plays in mitigating potentially harmful concentrations of power in DeFi networks/systems.

Relatedly, we acknowledge HMT’s observation that once certain DeFi networks/systems (or elements or those networks/systems) reach a certain level of decentralisation then they may not be practical to regulate. This is a significant observation because in our view: (i) it highlights that an authorisation-based regulatory approach to DeFi might risk being too inflexible to cater for this type of ‘transition’ as compared to a disclosure-based approach; (ii) it recognises the importance of decentralisation as a critical feature of DeFi networks/systems that qualitatively distinguishes it from TradFi, with different regulatory consequences; and (iii) decentralisation in this manner provides various consequential benefits to DeFi system components (as we have already described above – including increased transparency and reduced information asymmetry) that can ensure desired policy outcomes are still maintained even in the absence (or impracticability) of traditional regulation.

Chapter 12: Other Crypto Asset Activities (Miners and Validators)
44. Is there merit in regulating mining and validation activities in the UK? What would be the main regulatory outcomes beyond sustainability objectives?

We broadly agree that there could be some merit in bringing certain types of mining/validation activities within the scope of a suitably targeted, light-touch disclosure-based regulatory regime. However, as with any other element of a DeFi network/system, great care has to be taken to ensure the specific technical details and idiosyncrasies are being appropriately taken into account — along with related opportunities and risks — when bringing any regulatory framework to bear.

At the outset, it is important to highlight that mining (in proof-of-work networks) and validation (in proof-of-stake networks) activities take many different forms with different technological implementations. What is consistent across all of these forms is that mining/validation processes typically play an absolutely essential role in the functioning of a DeFi system (and blockchain networks more generally) via a host of processes including, for example, proposing new blocks for addition to the blockchain, choosing which transactions to include in proposed blocks, accepting or attesting proposed blocks, receiving block rewards and/or transactions fees and (taking these various processes together) maintaining network security. These processes are typically embodied in and form an integral part of crypto asset-based incentive frameworks that are deterministically enforced.

Given the vitally important role that mining/validation activities play in DeFi (and other cryptoasset) networks and systems, great care should be taken to ensure that any proposed regulatory approach does not inhibit these activities, and in so doing stifle innovation or create uncertainty for market participants.

It is also important to note that discussing ‘mining and validation activities’ writ large or as a monolithic category risks missing various critical technical, operational, and risk profile differences that should inform the regulatory approach. First and foremost it is important to situate these functions within the specific consensus mechanism and network in question. Proof-of-work and proof-of-stake are two different consensus mechanisms used in blockchain technology. Proof-of-work involves miners solving complex mathematical problems to validate transactions (most notably, Bitcoin), while proof-of-stake involves validators holding a certain amount of cryptocurrency and using it as collateral to validate transactions (NEAR Protocol, Polkadot, Ethereum, etc).[42] The Foundation’s focus will be on proof-of-stake networks, given that the NEAR Protocol is a layer-1 proof-of-stake network.[43]

Validation activities

        A validator in a layer-1 network is a key role. Validators stake their cryptoassets in a shared pool[44] and then analyse blocks based on the rules set by the network and receive rewards in the form of network fee for verified transactions.[45] The network rewards can vary based on the amount of cryptoassets staked in the validators pool (generally with the more cryptoassets staked the higher the rewards). Each network determines its own reward and commission fee structure, which is generally enshrined in the deterministic rules of the network.[46] 

Consider further the following high-level examples of different types of validation activities:

Single participant running a validator node. A participant operates their own validator node, contributing their resources to maintain network security and earn rewards in return.
Delegated staking. Users delegate their cryptoassets to a trusted validator, who then stakes on their behalf, generally sharing the rewards and risks proportionally.
Pooled staking. Participants pool their tokens together to create a shared validator node, distributing rewards and risks among the group based on each individual’s stake.
Custodial staking. Users entrust their tokens to a third-party custodial service, which stakes on their behalf and manages rewards and risks, often for a fee.
Liquid validator staking. Users stake their cryptoassets through a smart contract, with such staking contributions themselves made freely transferable (often in tokenised form), providing liquidity while still participating in staking.
These (and other) categories of validation activities clearly function very differently and present different potential risks. Across all of these categories however it is crucial to recognise that validation activities are typically controlled by the underlying networks and protocols, which utilise complex technical and cryptoasset-based incentivisation structures. Such structures are generally pre-determined and can be deterministically enforced, providing full transparency to all network participants.

Given the vitally important role that validator activities play in DeFi networks and systems, regulators should exercise great care when proposing any approaches to avoid unduly restraining these activities, stifling innovation, or creating uncertainty for market participants.

Collective Investment Scheme (“CIS”)

One potential source of uncertainty for UK-based DeFi participants in the UK arises in connection with certain types of mining or validator activities and the definition of ‘Collective Investment Scheme’ under section 235 of the FSMA.[47] The definition includes arrangements with respect to property (including money) that allow participants to engage in or receive profits or income that stem from the acquisition, holding, management, or disposal of property, or sums paid out of such profits or income. The arrangements falling under the CIS definition must be such that the persons who are to participate (“Participants”) do not have day-to-day control over the management of the property, whether or not they have the right to be consulted or to give directions. They must also have the following characteristics: (i) the contributions of the Participants and the profits or income out of which payments are to be made to them are pooled, and (ii) the property is managed as a whole by or on behalf of the operator of the scheme.

Presently, it is extremely unclear the extent to which different types of mining and validation activities — particularly pooled validator staking — might fall within the CIS definition. The current definition of CIS may not be suitable for DeFi practices primarily because: (i) it predates blockchain technology and therefore it is unable to address the nuanced aspects of decentralised technology; and (ii) it is a definition unique to the UK which focuses on scenarios where capital or assets are pooled and entrusted to third parties with significant investment discretion, which is not the case in DeFi. Moreover, with the borderless nature of blockchain technology in general, and permissionless nature of DeFi in particular, it would be challenging to pigeonhole validating activities under CIS. Schemes within the scope of s.235 are generally more centralised with a significant potential for abuse of power and conflicts of interest concentrated on a small number of people responsible for investment decisions (amongst other issues), as well as the fact that typically such ‘products’ are highly illiquid and/or carry significant risk.

In the context of pooled validator staking, the risks present in TradFi do not apply because validation activities contribute to network functioning and security, rather than passive capital contribution as is the case under a CIS, and compensation for that work is often pre-determined and deterministically enforced by the relevant network or smart contracts (rather than dependent on the efforts or discretion of others).[48] Indeed, the discretion offered to a manager under a CIS is different to the narrow role of a validator in a proof of stake network that can be deterministically enforced on-chain through cryptoasset based incentivization structures to protect mining and validation function in networks. Regulation should not interfere or jeopardise the inherent on-chain cryptoasset-based incentivization structures that protect mining and validation functions within networks. Also, creating barriers to entry for staking could potentially concentrate validation power into the hands of a smaller number of well-resourced validators, negatively impacting DeFi’s key characteristics: decentralisation and dis-intermediation. We suggest that HMT considers exercising its power to carve-out pooled validator staking arrangements from the CIS definition, which would help promote certainty, encourage decentralisation, and support HMT’s overarching policy objectives.

More generally, in our view any proposed approach to regulating mining and validation activities should focus on addressing potentially harmful concentrations of power – for example, where a large amount of a DeFi network’s consensus power is concentrated in the hands of a small number of actors, sometimes termed ‘validator dominance’. As with the other forms of potentially harmful concentrations of power in DeFi systems, validator dominance can reduce transparency and competition, and also raise consumer protection risks.

A regulatory approach to tackle these potential risks  could involve a light-touch disclosure regime targeting validators operating at a certain scale, by way of a business. Disclosure requirements could be congruent with policy principles, ensuring that the regulatory environment remains conducive to the growth and development of DeFi networks and their participants.

The eventual disclosure requirements could be designed by a joint regulator and self-regulatory initiative, and could include: (i) basic information about validators such as their identity, location of nodes, stake amount, uptime, security measures, technical specifications and performance metrics of the validator’s hardware and software; (ii) a standard set of risk factors applying to validators; and (iii) any fees/commission charged by validators. As mentioned above, in order to avoid potentially stifling validation activities or creating barriers to entry for individual network participants, we would suggest that any such regime should only apply to validators operating at scale and by way of a business (i.e. as a service offering to end users).

Maximal Extractable Value (“MEV”)

MEV refers to the profit that network miners and validators can obtain by strategically ordering or including transactions in the blocks they mine or validate within a blockchain network. MEV arises due to the decentralised nature of blockchain networks, where transactions are not processed simultaneously and miners/validators have some degree of control over transaction ordering in a block. HMT has identified MEV as an area of potential consideration.

MEV is a critical component of DeFi systems (and blockchain networks more generally) because it underpins and typically forms an integral part of cryptoasset-based incentive structures which are designed to maintain and reinforce (amongst other things) the security and consensus of blockchain networks. MEV is also a highly nascent issue with very little data to inform the long-term impact of different types of MEV activities and strategies. Any regulation of MEV should therefore be carefully considered.[49] 

At a high level MEV-based activities or strategies are typically categorised by industry participants into so-called positive (value-add) and negative (potentially harmful) strategies.

Positive (value-add) MEV strategies. These strategies are generally seen as beneficial or neutral to the network and its participants. They involve miners/validators extracting value without negatively impacting other users or the overall ecosystem. Examples of so-called positive MEV strategies include: (i) transaction prioritisation (transactions with higher fees are prioritised, which helps maintain a free market and the network’s incentivisation system); and (ii) arbitrage (exploitation of price differences across different cryptoasset markets, contributing to market efficiency).
Negative (potentially harmful) MEV strategies. These strategies can potentially have adverse effects on the network and its participants, raising (amongst other things) consumer protection risks. They involve miners extracting value at the expense of other users or manipulating the network in a way that undermines its trustworthiness and efficiency. Examples of so-called negative MEV strategies include: (i) identifying lucrative transactions and replicating them before they are finalised on-chain, thereby capturing that value; and (ii) front-running (deliberately placing transactions before and after another transaction in an attempt to influence pricing of relevant cryptoassets).
There are already various efforts underway by industry participants to attempt to mitigate so-called negative MEV strategies, including:

MEV Auctions (e.g. Flashbots). Flashbots is a research organisation[50] that focuses on addressing the negative externalities of MEV. They have introduced a system called MEV-Geth, which enables miners to participate in sealed-bid auctions for transaction ordering rights. Users can submit their transactions directly to miners along with a bid representing the tip they are  willing to pay. This system creates a more transparent marketplace for MEV, reducing the likelihood of potentially harmful strategies.
Fair Sequencing Services (“FSS”). Fair Sequencing Services[51] is a proposal to modify the way transactions are ordered within blocks. Instead of miners having complete control over transaction ordering, an FSS provider would decide the order based on predefined rules or algorithms that aim to reduce the potential for negative MEV strategies. FSS can be combined with other solutions like commit-reveal schemes, where users submit encrypted transactions that are revealed and processed only after a specific time, reducing the possibility of potentially harmful MEV strategies being deployed.
Transaction Privacy Solutions. Privacy-enhancing technologies, such as zero-knowledge proofs and confidential transactions, can help obscure transaction details and make it harder for miners to identify and potentially exploit MEV opportunities.
As we identified above, MEV can play a vital role in DeFi networks and is a complex, nascent area. There is also very little data regarding the impact of different MEV activities/strategies and the potential issues to which they give rise. Therefore at this stage we do not believe any regulatory intervention by HMT would be wise or desirable (although that does not mean there may not be scope for regulatory intervention in the future). Instead, we would suggest that HMT continues to monitor the MEV environment and consider revisiting the area once there is more clarity regarding the longevity and impact of different MEV activities and strategies.

45. Should staking (excluding “layer 1 staking”) be considered alongside crypto asset lending as an activity to be regulated in phase 2?

Staking refers to a range of activities that involve locking up crypto assets in DeFi platforms or applications to earn rewards, such as provision of liquidity, yield farming, or other token-based incentives. These staking activities differ from layer 1 staking, which as described in more detail in our response to question 44, is the process of securing a blockchain network by validating transactions and creating new blocks. Staking in DeFi platforms or applications often involves complex mechanisms and contracts that expose participants to various types of risks, such as counterparty risk (the risk of default or fraud by the other party), liquidity risk (the risk of not being able to withdraw or exchange the staked assets), market risk (the risk of price fluctuations or volatility), and technology risk (the risk of hacking, bugs, or errors in the platform or application).  

So-called cryptoasset ‘lending’, on the other hand, involves the ‘lending’ and ‘borrowing’ crypto assets through platforms that use digital assets as collateral (we would emphasise again – as already noted in our response to question 36 – that any comparison of DeFi to CeFi/TradFi (and the use of TradFi terms to describe certain DeFi processes) should be approached with caution on the basis that such comparisons are a useful heuristic but do not capture and risk obscuring DeFi’s qualitative differences). This activity allows borrowers to access capital without selling their crypto assets and enables lenders to earn interest on their idle assets. However, cryptoasset lending also entails risks, such as collateral risk (the risk of insufficient or devalued collateral), platform risk (the risk of insolvency or failure of the platform), and regulatory risk (the risk of non-compliance with existing or future regulations).

Given the significant differences in the nature, risks, benefits, and potential systemic implications of both staking (excluding layer 1 staking) and crypto asset lending, it is essential to thoroughly examine these aspects before deciding whether they should be regulated in tandem in phase 2. Factors regulators should consider include:

The types and levels of risks associated with these activities and how they can be mitigated or managed by the participants or the platforms.
The degree of investor/consumer protection required in each case, considering that some staking and lending platforms might lack strict know-your-customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) processes or adequate disclosure of information and terms and conditions.
The potential impact of these activities on the broader financial ecosystem and whether they could contribute to systemic risks or financial instability by creating interdependencies, contagion effects, or market distortions.
The accessibility and transparency of staking and lending platforms for different types of investors, such as retail or institutional investors, and whether they provide fair and equal opportunities and treatment for all participants. By considering these factors, regulators can make an informed decision on whether staking, excluding layer 1 staking, should be considered alongside crypto asset lending for regulation in phase 2.
We do not think that consumer-based permissionless staking for network security should be regulated in the same way as staking in DeFi platforms or applications. Consumer-based permissionless staking for network security is a simpler and more transparent activity that involves locking up cryptoassets in a blockchain network to secure its operations and earn rewards. This activity does not involve complex mechanisms that create additional risks for the participants. Moreover, consumer-based permissionless staking for network security does not pose significant systemic risks or financial stability concerns, as it is decentralised and distributed across many nodes that validate transactions and create new blocks. Therefore, we believe that consumer-based permissionless staking for network security should be treated differently from staking in DeFi platforms or applications for regulatory purposes.

        46.What do you think the most appropriate regulatory hooks for layer 1 staking activity would be (e.g. the staking pools or the validators themselves)?

        Please refer to the comprehensive answer to question 44 above.

[1] Future Financial Services Regulatory Regime for Crypto Assets Consultation and call for evidence, HM Treasury, 2023 (available here)

[2] The NEAR Whitepaper (available here).

[3] NEAR Foundation Announces Policy Principles (available here).

[4] Consensys, DeFi Market Commentary – January 2023 (available here).

[5] Largest stock exchanges worldwide as of June 2022, by value of electronic order book share trading published by Statista (available here).

[6] Dunja Radonic, Bankless Times, Eye-Opening DeFi Statistics & Facts for 2023 (available here).

[7] See, e.g., Written Evidence Submitted by Chainalysis. Chainalysis, UK Parliament Committees, September 2022, (available here).

[8] See note 1.

[9] Jake Chervisnky, DeFi lending doesn’t exist (yet), Why DeFi protocols are mislabeled as lending protocols (available here).

[10] See further Table 1, Crypto vs. traditional finance system, DeFi risks and the decentralisation illusion, BIS Quarterly Review, 06 December 2021 (available here).

[11] Future Financial Services Regulatory Regime for Crypto Assets Consultation and call for evidence, paragraph 11.7, pg. 67, HM Treasury, 2023 (available here).

[12] See paragraph 1.11 in the Consultation paper.

[13] CFTC v. FTX Trading Ltd. et al., 1:22-cv-10503-PKC, SDNY, paras 56-62 (available here). See also, e.g., Sandali Handagama,  CoinDesk,, FTX Violated Its Own Terms of Service and Misused User Funds, Layers Say, 10 November 2022 (available here),

[14] See KPMG, The collapse of FTX, Lessons and implications for stakeholders in the crypto industry, November 2022( available here).

[15] Ibid.

[16] Ibid.  

[17] J.P. Morgan, U.S. Mid- and Small-Cap Banks Crypto Banking Weekly, November 11, 2022 (available here).

[18] See, e.g., Lang Mei, Nasdaq, 5 January 2023, Learning the Hard Way: The FTX Debacle Once Again Demonstrates DeFi’s Strengths (available here) (“[b]lockchain analytics platform Nansen has reported a double-digit percentage increase in DeFi users in the aftermath of the FTX collapse”).

[19] Hester M. Peirce, Remarks before the Digital Assets at Duke Conference, 20 June 2023 (available here).

[20] Ibid.

[21] Kennedy and Crypto, Chair Gary Gensler, 8 September 2022 (“[g]iven the nature of crypto investments, I recognize that it may be appropriate to be flexible in applying existing disclosure requirements. Tailored disclosures exist elsewhere — for example, asset-backed securities disclosure differs from that for equities”) (available here).

[22] The EU Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA) text is available here. MiCa was approved in April 2023.

[23] The Responsible Financial Innovation Act (a.k.a the Lummis-Gillibrand bill) presented to the US Senate in 2022 here.

[24] The Current SEC Disclosure Framework Is Unfit for Crypto, Paradigm Policy, Rodrigo Seira, Justin Slaughter, Katie Biber, 20 April 2023 (available here).

[25] In the past year, a few CeFi entities (Alameda, Celsius, Voyager etc) failed due to lack of reserve funds and transparency (among other things). In the Bankruptcy report filed re FTX, the major pitfalls of the exchange were based on its lack of appropriate controls, concentrated power, and commingled funds which also led to poor accounting and lack of reserves.

[26]  Guidelines on risk factors under the Prospectus Regulation, European Securities and Markets Authority, 29 March 2019, (available here).

[27]PRR 2 – FCA Handbook, Financial Conduct Authority, 01 January 2021, (available here).

[28] SEC Commissioner Hester M. Peirce, Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0” (available here).

[29] See note 11.

[30] Safe Harbor X, LeXpunK-Army, 7 March 2023  (proposing a rule that would provide an exemption for the distribution of autonomous cryptoassets  to users and builders of autonomous software systems, based on the Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0, but with some modifications and additions, such as requiring semi-annual updates, an exit report, guidance on decentralisation criteria, and clarifying the definition and scope of autonomous cryptoassets  and autonomous cryptosystems). These safe harbour proposals would operate to effectively provide projects with conditioned routes to compliance, based on each project meeting various requirements (including disclosures, smart contract audits, and degree of decentralisation) (available here).

[31] 17 CFR § 230.144. Rule 144 under US securities laws allows for the sale of restricted securities under certain conditions one of which is a holding period. See SEC, Rule 144: Selling Restricted and Control Securities, 16 January 2013 (available here).

[32] LeXpunK Army, Reg-X-Proposal-An-Exempt-Offering-Framework-for-Token-Issuances, 25 April 2022 (available here).

[33]  Ibid.

[34] See note 11.

[35] See Mayer Brown’s comments on the Lummis-Gillibrand bill referring to ‘ancillary assets’ as: ‘An ancillary asset includes any “intangible, fungible asset that is offered, sold, or otherwise provided to a person in connection with the purchase and sale of a security through an arrangement or scheme that constitutes an investment contract” but, importantly, does not include assets that have debt or equity-like characteristics’” (available here).

[36] Model law consultations and proposals can serve as guidance or inspiration for other jurisdictions that are considering similar reforms or initiatives. COALA created a model law for DAO’s, organising industry players, academics, and regulators to collaborate on the language. The intention is to work with local governments to allow adoption of the Model Law. See, e.g., Model Law For Decentralised Autonomous Organizations, Constance Choi, Primavera De Filippi, Rick Dudley, Silke Not Elrifia, Coalition of Automated Legal Applications (COALA), 2021 (available here).

[37] Fahad Saleh, The Review of Financial Studies, Blockchain without Waste: Proof-of-Stake, Volume 34, Issue 3, March 2021, Pages 1156–1190 ( available here).

[38] Chris Brummer, Introducing Disclosure NFTs, Disclosure DAOs, and Disclosure DIDs, 24 March 2022, Medium (available here).

[39] Chris Brummer, Disclosure, Dapps and DeFi, Stanford Journal of Blockchain Law & Policy, 29 June 2022 (available here).

[40] See LexPunK Github materials here.

[41] The Edinburgh Decentralisation Index is a proposed framework for measuring and comparing the degree of decentralisation in different blockchain systems. The framework consists of four layers: network, protocol, governance, and application. Each layer has a set of features that capture different aspects of decentralisation, such as node distribution, consensus mechanism, upgrade process, and smart contract functionality, and is assigned a score from 0 to 5 which is then aggregated (available here). Also, Consensys has analysed metrics of decentralisation on the Ethereum mainnet, including  network size, node diversity, node geography, client diversity, miner diversity, gas usage, gas fees, and transaction volume. Another analysis computes  the distribution of mining power in Bitcoin and Ethereum using three metrics (Gini coefficient, Shannon entropy, and Nakamoto coefficient) and three granularities (days, weeks, and months), while the so-called decentralised quotient measures decentralisation by calculating  the number of nodes by the number of validators or miners in a blockchain network (available here).

[42] See, e.g.,Coinbase, What Is ‘Proof of Work’ or ‘Proof of Stake’? (available here).

[43] See e.g., NEAR Protocol, Network NEAR Protocol, September 2022 (available here).

[44] See note 23.

[45] See note 23.

[46] The NEAR Protocol has recently launched the Blockchain Operating System (“BOS”), which serves as a single platform that developers can build into and users can interact on, including by browsing and discovering Web3 products such as crypto exchanges, non-fungible token (NFT) galleries and social networks. The BOS will be compatible with all blockchains (currently supporting NEAR Protocol and Ethereum Virtual Machine chains), with NEAR protocol acting as the common entry point. The BOS offers a decentralised and composable and front end framework for building, launching, and using dApps, while leveraging common user experience frameworks such as profiles, notifications, and searching. With BOS, the NEAR protocol is transitioning from being only a layer 1 blockchain to a cross-chain solution aiming at lowering the barriers of entry into Web3.  For more information on the BOS, see, e.g., Near Protocol Announces the Blockchain Operating System, NEAR Foundation, 2 March 2023 (available here);

[47] Financial Services Market Act 2000 (FSMA), s.235 (available here).

[48] See ‘MEV’ section below.

[49] For an excellent, detailed discussion of MEV, see Evan Zinaman, Where the Rubber Meets the Road: A MEV-aware, Functionalist Review of OFAC Risk ‘On the Base Layer,’  29 April 2023 (available here).

[50] See further Flashbots Docs with more information on its work (available here).

[51] Aru Juels et al.,  Chainlink, Fair Sequencing Services: Enabling a Provably Fair DeFi Ecosystem, 22 September 2020 (available here).


NEAR at Consensus: Get Started on the Blockchain Operating System
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 3, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that NEAR is heading to the 2023 edition of Coindesk’s Consensus from April 26-28. 

NEAR has a massive base at this year’s Consensus, from which we will introduce devs and end users to the Blockchain Operating System. The Blockchain Operating System is an industry-first category, functioning as a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences with any blockchain.

Here is what to expect from NEAR at Consensus 2023. 

The Blockchain Operating System at Consensus 
If you saw NEAR’s big announcement out of ETHDenver, NEAR isn’t just a Layer 1 blockchain. It’s a Blockchain Operating System for the Open Web — your easy entry point into Web3. 

With the BOS, NEAR has built an industry first, with decentralized frontends and forkable components for developers. For end users, the BOS makes app discovery easy and social. All designed to bring billions of people into Web3, on any blockchain.

The BOS and much more will be on display at Consensus! 

The NEAR booth at Consensus 
Consensus is the world’s largest and longest-running crypto gathering, bringing together devs, VCs, founders, policymakers and many others in the Web3, blockchain, and cryptocurrency communities. NEAR will be at Consensus for three days of talks, panels, demos, parties, and more. 

The NEAR booth at Consensus will be souped-up and multi-faceted, delivering the latest tech and ecosystem updates for the Web3 community at Consensus! 

NEAR’s booth will feature 4 different components. Let’s explore them. 

BOS for Devs 
If you’re a developer, get onboarded into the Blockchain Operating System. Talk to NEAR and BOS experts. 

Get started learning how to build widgets and experiences within the BOS. Create interfaces, fork components, and much more, with NEAR experts as your guides.

BOS for End Users
If you’re an end user who loves Web3, experience how the Blockchain Operating System is revolutionizing the access to and discovery of Web3 apps and experiences. Set up an account and get access to all of the latest exciting experiences that are now live or being built on NEAR.

NEAR ecosystem members will be there to guide you throughout your Blockchain Operating System experience with demos, tutorials, and more! 

NEAR Ecosystem Showcase 
NEAR’s booth will also feature an Ecosystem Showcase component. Here you will learn about the latest game-changing announcements, and discover the apps and experiences being built on NEAR. 

NEAR Horizon Accelerator
The booth will also feature a space for NEAR Horizon, the ecosystem’s new accelerator. Meet with the Horizon team and get started on the Web3 funding and building journey. 

NEAR speakers at Consensus
Catch a number of exciting NEAR speakers and sessions at Consensus. The final list of participants and sessions is still being solidified. However, we do have some confirmed speakers to highlight. 

April 28th from 12:45pm – 1:30pm on Main Stage — Illia Polosukhin, CEO of Pagoda and Co-Founder of NEAR on “Devs Doing Something: BUIDLing in a Bear Market” panel with Sergey Nazarov, Co-Founder of Chainlink and Emin Gun Sirer, CEO of Ava Labs.

April 28th from 3pm – 3:20pm on Protocol Village Stage — Illia Polosukhin, CEO of Pagoda and Co-Founder of NEAR, and Alex Chiocchi, Chief Product Officer of Pagoda will present on the latest Blockchain Operating System insights.

April 28th from 3:20pm – 3:35pm on Protocol Village Stage — Marieke Flament, CEO of Near Foundation and Special Guest VC 

April 28th from 3:35pm – 3:45pm on Protocol Village Stage — Alex Shevchenko, CEO and Co-Founder of Aurora: Web3 Cloud Containers

April 28th from 3:45pm – 4pm on Protocol Village Stage — Web3 Media Tech Panel. Special guests TBA.

Stay updated on the complete slate of confirmed speakers at Near.org/Consensus.
Near Announces the Blockchain Operating System
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 2, 2023
Near announced today that it is becoming the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The BOS is an industry-first category: a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences, compatible with any blockchain. 

The Blockchain Operating System will make Near the entry point for the Open Web, for users and developers alike. And it will make both Web3 and Web2 easier than ever to access and navigate. 

Becoming more than just a blockchain 
Since inception, Near’s mission has been to onboard 1 billion users to the Open Web. The first step in the journey was to focus on building a best in class L1 blockchain that was easy to build on and easy to use. 

Near was designed to be simple, with a flexible account model and human readable accounts — any name a user wants instead of a string of letters and numbers. And with Near’s Nightshade sharding approach, the Near blockchain was designed to be infinitely scalable and secure. At the same time, Near concentrated on building out tooling to support builders developing on the protocol, including the JavaScript SDK that now gives 15 million developers access to building on Near. 

This has created and sustained a thriving Near ecosystem with more than 23 million accounts and over a thousand project building, but these were only the first steps toward delivering the vision of Web3 to a mainstream audience.

Now, Near is building up the Web3 stack to integrate experiences from across the open web and streamline the discovery and onboarding experience for users and developers alike. 

Enter Near: the Blockchain Operating System 
Today, Near is launching near.org — a composable frontend for Web3. It will allow end users to easily and frictionlessly discover all of Web3’s possibilities in one seamless experience. It will also empower developers to create and code interfaces in a single environment with the ability to fork a host of components to build apps faster, and more efficiently than ever before.

Anyone in the Open Web ecosystem can create their own frontends (i.e., their own versions of near.org), compatible with the blockchain of their choice. This means that builders from any ecosystem can create components in just a few lines of code, and take advantage of fast onboarding to help make new and custom Web3 experiences.

This is an industry first. With the addition of composable frontends to the tech stack, Near now becomes the Blockchain Operating System, allowing seamless, one-time onboarding and removing friction points like making accounts for every experience, while supercharging development from a collection of over 1,800 components. 

Near.org is the first step in Near’s Blockchain Operating System journey. It’s the Alpha version, where builders can see the frontend come to life. 

Try it out at near.org to experience the world’s first Blockchain Operating System — a revolutionary moment in Web3. If you’re a developer, see how easy it is to fork components and create new experiences. If you’re an end user, see how easy it is to explore Web3 experiences, social, and news all in one place. 

The Blockchain Operating System is Near and it’s here. #NearistheBOS
Community Update: June 19th, 2020
COMMUNITY
June 19, 2020
Summer is knocking on the door and we are getting NEAR ready for the next steps of decentralizing MainNet and our community efforts. We have already accepted over 20 communities into our Guild Program, who are now starting local community initiatives including AMAs, translating content, and engaging new community members. If you would like to get involved with your existing community or start a local NEAR presence, we would love to hear from you.

Partnerships
We are supporting Coinbase Rosetta (https://rosetta-api.org), an open-source specification and set of tools that makes integrating with blockchains simpler, faster, and more reliable. It enables projects to

Onboard faster with exchanges and apps; 
Build while ensuring strict security constraints are met; and 
Grow adoption by making code predictable & easier to debug.
Learn All About Building the Open Web
The Open Web Collective has launched a Podcast “Building the Open Web”. Sasha will be exploring entrepreneurship in Web3 with founders, investors, and industry leaders. To access the latest episodes, subscribe here (Apple) or here (for Spotify).

The first four episodes are already out

Episode #1 is with @roneilr from @AudiusProject on Building a Decentralized Music Streaming Platform
Episode #2 is with @MariaShen from @ElectricCapital covering Startup Advice for Blockchain Entrepreneurs 
Episode #3 is with @yanivgraph from @graphprotocol to talk about Getting Initial Customers and Finding Product-Market Fit
Episode #4 is with @taratan from @ideocolab on Bridging Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 Product Design
Events
Protect Privacy Hackathon on Gitcoin from June 15th to June 29th; you can still sign-up and show us how you would enhance user privacy in the web3 space.
Community Talk: AI and Blockchain by Arif, the CEO and Co-founder of Alethea.AI on Wednesday the 24th at 5PM CEST (Check out this video to get an idea of what the call is going to be about)
NEAR-Shell AMA for validators and builders (next week, stay tuned for the date & time)
Content Highlight
Deep dive on Optimistic Rollups and scaling Ethereum smart contracts with Optimism Co-Founder Ben Jones and NEAR Co-Founder & CTO, Alex Skidanov

Community Spotlight
Flux Community Update June 2020, including
Market Creator Fee
Affiliate Fees
Selling Shares – @UniswapProtocol
Crowdsourced Dispute
Resolution Fee 
A contributor created a NEAR Prometheus Exporter, which is a service that exports various metrics from a NEAR node.
We started hosting engineering syncs with our contributors; this Trello board will provide a high-level overview of our initiatives, currently featuring devx.
Thanks to all the amazing people who joined. (Names are blurred out)
How You Can Get Involved
We have something for everyone

Join the NEAR Contributor Program to contribute to our engineering efforts.
You love hosting events, engaging communities, and creating content? Then head over to our Guild Program.
If you are in the process of setting up your own start-up in the Web3 space, the Open Web Collective will provide guidance.
If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, join the conversation on Discord, and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
International Cricket Council and NEAR Foundation Sign Multiyear Partnership to Boost Global Fan Engagement Through Web3
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 27, 2023
The International Cricket Council (ICC) and the NEAR Foundation are entering into a groundbreaking new partnership that will utilize Web3 tools built on the NEAR Blockchain to deepen engagement in the sport.

The NEAR Foundation will become the ICC’s official blockchain partner, helping cricket’s governing body create new ways for fans to get closer to their favorite teams and players using Web3 technology. 

“We are excited to embark on this partnership with NEAR Foundation and to use their technology and network of talent to create better and deeper fan engagement around the globe,” says Finn Bradshaw, Head of Digital at the ICC.

“We are looking forward to exploring ways in which we can use new technology to create lasting, valuable experiences for our fans.”

The partnership will launch its first collaboration as part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup, starting on October 5 in India. Built on NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S), the ICC will release a pre-match strategy challenge that pits players against each other to pick the best team. 

Each player can make choices across three key facets of the challenge: batting, bowling and fielding. Once a player has built their perfect strategy, as the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup unfolds, their team will receive points based on the real life performance of the players they picked. 

A leaderboard will track each fans’ performance and weekly winners will be awarded prizes including match tickets, exclusive events, Men’s Cricket World Cup merchandise, and more. This new type of engagement, built thanks to the B.O.S, helps to place fans at the center of the action, bringing them closer to the game than ever before.

A new era in sports engagement 
“We are extremely excited to be working with the ICC in this multi year deal. This is one of our biggest partnership announcements to date and solidifies our reputation as a go-to blockchain technology provider in the sporting world,” says Chris Donovan, CEO of the NEAR Foundation

“Given the immense size and popularity of cricket, the NEAR ecosystem will potentially be exposed to hundreds of millions of cricket fans who will have the opportunity to learn about NEAR Foundation’s mission of increasing the adoption of an open web,  and get the chance to interact with Web3 use cases built on the Blockchain Operating System. We look forward to opportunities that this mutually beneficial agreement will bring to cricket fans and to playing a key role in using Web3 to make the world of sport more inclusive and exciting for everyone.” 

After the Men’s Cricket World Cup, the partnership between the NEAR Foundation and the ICC will continue to the end of 2025. During that time, both sides have committed to work together to develop other Web3 use cases that help fans get closer to the sport. 

Initial use cases include development of a fan passport that allows fans to record their actions and memories, in a tamper proof way across every touchpoint, both online and off.  

These innovations are all made possible thanks to the B.O.S. With its full stack of Web3 tools and easy onboarding, partners like the ICC can take advantage of the world’s most highly scalable, community-driven, and secure blockchains that deliver proven, best-in-class performance that can support any kind of Web3 strategy. 
Berry Cards: a DeFi NFT Marketplace for Pixel Art
CASE STUDIES
March 18, 2021
A few of the most highly valued Berry Cards NFTs
What are Berry Cards?
Berry Cards is a marketplace for pixel art NFTs, which runs on the NEAR protocol, allowing people to buy artwork created with Berry Club. People buy the cards they like using NEAR, and then sell those cards again on the marketplace. However, Berry Cards has a number of features that separate it from other NFT marketplaces.

Dynamic pricing
For starters, owners of an NFT are not able to set a price for their work; instead, Berry Cards does it for them, using a number of methods. An individual pixel art (AKA a Berry Card) first gets its value by people voting on which art they prefer. Everybody with a NEAR wallet is able to sign into Berry Cards and begin voting on which cards they prefer. By going to the homepage, a user will be presented with two random cards and will be prompted to pick the one they like best. The card they choose will then increase in value by 10%, while the other card will lose value by 10%. This is a simple and elegant way of creating fair prices for NFTs as it reflects what the community as a whole considers most valuable, rather than one person. It is “voting with your wallet” in the most literal sense. 

Each Berry Card is a shared board
Berry Cards are not made by one individual person, but rather they are designed by a community of people all working together. Berry Club users collaborate on individual cards by organizing themselves using individual chatrooms, where they discuss what changes they would like to work on together, and what designs they would like to make. This encourages a sense of unity among users. It also makes Berry Cards more special, as it means that multiple people have worked on them, and will continue to work on them indefinitely. This is one of the reasons why no individual person is able to set the price for a Berry Card, because Berry Cards are community-driven, and so it would be unfair for one person to set the price, rather than letting the community itself set the price. 

People are able to add pixels to a project on Berry Club by using avocados, a token that runs on the NEAR network. As of writing this article, 1 NEAR = 250 avocados. When you use (or plant) these tokens onto a piece of work, you can earn a yield each day (more info on yield farming with Berry Club can be found here).

Berry Cards cannot be taken off the market
Unlike marketplaces like OpenSea, you cannot take the Berry Cards you have bought off the marketplace. Instead, after buying a Berry Card, it is automatically re-added to the marketplace, but with its price increased to reflect your purchase. This is because Berry Cards are not about ownership of rights, but rather about engaging with a community, and earning profits while you do so. When you buy a Berry Card, the majority of the money goes to the previous owner, although 10% of the money will go to the art DAO, with a 1% commission also going to the application itself. The art DAO is an important part of the NEAR ecosystem, where the profits handed to it are then used as an incentive to bring onboard new artists to Berry Cards and other NFT marketplaces which use the NEAR network. After the card is bought, the price of the card rises by 20%, so if somebody was to buy your card from you, you would then make a profit. 

I tried this out for myself, by purchasing a Berry Card which costs 2.41 NEAR. This card had a previous owner, and so they got the majority of those profits, although the Art DAO also got 10%. Afterward, the card got re-added to the marketplace with a new, higher, price of 2.89 NEAR. If somebody buys that card off me, then I would get 2.57 NEAR. This might not seem like a lot, but those profits rise significantly when looking at more expensive cards, and if the value of NEAR rises, then those profits would also increase. *Note – the price of a card can increase or decrease by people voting on it.

Another reason why Berry Cards cannot be taken off the market is because they are always live. Even when you buy a card, people over at Berry Club can still edit that card by using their avocados to add pixels. To take the card off the market would be to harm the community as a whole, which goes against the project’s design philosophy of connectivity and unity.

Cards owned by nobody
If you explore the Berry Cards marketplace, you will find that many cards are not owned by anybody. These are cards created by Berry Club, but which nobody over at the Berry Cards marketplace has purchased yet. By default, these cards belong to the Art DAO, and so if you purchase them, 99% of the profits go to that account, which is then used to support other artists, and 1% goes to the app commission, which is used to keep Berry Cards running and keeps contracts funded. 

Why use Berry Cards?
There are several things that make Berry Cards appealing to crypto, blockchain, and NFT fans. NEAR’s scalability and cheap transactions allow for deeply interactive projects, like Berry Cards and Berry Club, to exist. Both of these projects encourage a great deal of user-activity and input, two things that Ethereum simply cannot handle at the moment. This means that people can confidently use Berry Cards with the knowledge that it will always be user-friendly and efficient, both for traders and for creators over at Berry Club. The knowledge that these projects will stay cheap and fast is a strong incentive for people to explore them with the confidence that they are future-proof. 

Berry Cards are fair
Another positive of Berry Cards is its fairness of pricing. If you take a quick look at places like OpenSea, and other NFT markets, you will see a plethora of art that seems overpriced compared to what the art actually looks or sounds like. This is largely because people are hopping onto the NFT bandwagon and setting their work extremely high with the hopes that newcomers will be duped into paying for it so they can make a profit, too. However, Berry Cards prevents this from happening by dynamically pricing its work, where users of Berry Cards help to set the price of each piece. This means that everything is algorithmically and mathematically priced. It might have the fairest pricing system of any NFT marketplace I have come across. 

A final major reason to use Berry Cards is that it is designed to support the digital art community. As mentioned above, 10% of earnings from any card purchase go to the Art DAO (or if nobody owns the card, then 99% goes there). The funds being held by the Art DAO are then used by NEAR developers to put money into the growing NFT market, and encourage artists to participate in the world of NFTs. So, by buying and selling Berry Cards, you are actively supporting the digital art community. 

Final Words
Berry Cards is one of many innovative NFT projects running on NEAR. By allowing people to buy and sell community-driven pixel art, using its funds to help artists, and setting its prices dynamically via user participation, it is creating a project that supports the art world, encourages collaboration, and sets fair prices for its content. It is an innovative and creative project that shows the world just how efficient and cost-effective the NEAR protocol is.

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. 
Transitioning NEAR MainNet to the Next Phase: It is Time to Stake, Delegate and Vote
COMMUNITY
September 15, 2020
As announced in April by this roadmap blog post, NEAR is entering into Phase I, called “MainNet Restricted.” This transition will be complete on September 24th.

Since August, a decentralized set of validators has been onboarding to MainNet to replace the NEAR Foundation nodes, thus decentralizing the protocol’s consensus. The NEAR Validators Advisory Board represents the core group of community members, distinguished validators from the Stake Wars incentivized testnet program and recognized players from the Proof of Stake ecosystem.

In the meantime, the ecosystem is already thriving on the current configuration of the network, called “MainNet PoA”, with examples that include the custody provider Finoa and applications like Zed.run and Flux. For them, this transition will proceed without interruptions: the four NEAR Foundation nodes are working as any other validator, and the Phase I network will simply reach a higher number of block producers.
The upgrade to a decentralized, validator-run Phase I will kick off a new wave of opportunities like the Rainbow Bridge, the upcoming EVM support, and several as-yet-unannounced applications.

This activity lays down the groundwork for Phase II, a full community governed MainNet, as validators can also start voting to enable transfers and protocol’s inflationary rewards. The decision will be entirely in their hands, and this vote might occur right after transitioning into Phase I, depending on how they choose to proceed.

This post will describe how validators join MainNet: Restricted (Phase I), how tokenholders can delegate to these validators, and how the vote to enter Phase II will happen.

Laying down the Infrastructure for Phase I
Validators joining MainNet Restricted have to follow three steps:

Generate a MainNet wallet. NEAR Foundation is sending invitation emails containing the instructions to create a MainNet wallet. Accounts names must use a .near suffix, e.g. “satoshi” will have to be “satoshi.near”. Once the wallet is generated, the Foundation will provide 40 tokens to deploy a staking pool from the core contracts.
Deploy the node and the staking pool. Supported staking pools (as they appear on the block explorer) will have the .poolv1.near suffix. For example, a validator passing the parameter “satoshi” to the staking pool factory will be seen by the community as “satoshi.poolv1.near”.
Receive delegation. Validators can reply to the NEAR Foundation email as soon as their node is ready to receive the initial staking transaction. Once this transaction is complete, the node is included in the active set within two epochs (<86,400 blocks, or less than 24 hours).
NEAR Foundation allocated a stake of 28.8 million tokens to enable Phase I validators, as follows:

16.8 million to the 14 members of the NEAR Validator Advisory Board, 1.2 million NEAR tokens each
12 million to the first 30 ecosystem validators that joined MainNet, 400k NEAR tokens each
These funds are temporarily delegated to help these validators onboard the community of NEAR contributors, supporters, and CoinList sale participants.
As soon as the protocol enters Phase II, NEAR Foundation will progressively unstake all the funds, starting from the organizations that raised enough to keep a seat on their own. The blog post Introduction to NEAR’s Protocol Economics, in the “Selection” part, provides more information about validator seat dynamics.

Community, it is now your turn to stake!
While NEAR Foundation ran MainNet PoA, hundreds of validators participated in the Stake Wars and prepared their nodes to receive staking from the community.
It is now your turn: all NEAR tokens in circulation can be staked immediately and will begin to earn rewards right after the transition to Phase II.
In practical terms, during Phase II all staked tokens generate returns that become transferable immediately, even if your account will be vesting its tokens for years to come!

Staking today is beneficial for the entire ecosystem:

More community staking helps Validators to build their popularity, making them independent from the Foundation early on.
Token holders get to know NEAR validators and prepare for Phase II rewards.
More tokens are used to vote for Phase II, improving the governance decentralization.
NEAR wallet will soon provide a user interface to stake with any MainNet validator. Other platforms are ready to announce their staking tools, making this process more accessible and intuitive for everyone.

In the meantime, NEAR tokens can be delegated only via command-line interface, following the instructions contained in the delegation docs. Heads up! This operation is suggested only to users who have familiarity with near-cli and know how to handle the private key material generated by the `near login` command.

The vote to launch Phase II
As soon as the Foundation shuts down its PoA nodes (operation planned for September 24th), NEAR Protocol is technically ready to transition into Phase II, called “MainNet: Community Governed.”

Phase II will enable token transfers and protocol rewards, and will need validators to accomplish two distinct actions:

An on-chain vote to enable token transfers.
A nearcore update to enable inflationary rewards.
Staking pool owners will vote on behalf of their users by signing a specific transaction, displaying an on-chain agreement that makes NEAR Protocol completely permissionless.
As soon as ⅔ of the staked funds voted to unlock transfers, transfers are enabled instantly. More specifically, all relevant lockup contracts will set users free to send and receive their available tokens.

Once the on-chain vote activates token transfers, NEAR Protocol is ready to enable inflationary rewards via a new nearcore release.
This transition, initially coordinated over email and the validator chat channels, will happen after 80% of the validators (counted by their stake) complete the upgrade. At this point, the upgradability function will recognize the shift, automatically enabling the rewards within two epochs (24 hours).

Inflationary rewards will introduce essential economic incentives, making the network consensus decentralized and entirely self-sufficient, as described in the Protocol Economics blog post and the documentation page.

Wrapping up
Four months after its Genesis Block, NEAR Protocol is transitioning into Phase I, onboarding a group of validators from the ecosystem.

These validators will:

Run the consensus, replacing Foundation’s PoA nodes.
Receive staking from the Foundation and the community of NEAR token holders.
Vote for Phase II, as introduced by the roadmap blog post.
During Phase I, the network limits token transfers and has no staking rewards, features that will be enabled after the vote to begin Phase II. This vote will be entirely orchestrated by validators, using the stake provided by NEAR Foundation and their early delegators.
Finally, Phase II will introduce inflationary rewards, activating the economic incentives to make NEAR consensus decentralized and self-sufficient.

Interested to know more? If you haven’t already, join the conversation at https://near.chat. If you want to be the first to know about NEAR progress, sign up to the newsletter.


NEAR Q2 Protocol Roadmap Update
COMMUNITY
August 9, 2023
The Q1 protocol roadmap update was well received by the community. Pagoda committed to  continuing to share quarterly roadmap updates, so here is the update for Q2 2023.

What the protocol team accomplished in Q2
Pagoda made good progress on the protocol roadmap in Q2. For the experience section, there is now a NEP on account namespaces, a key stepping stone towards account extension. Account extension would allow users to easily compose different modules such as multisig, proxy, and so on. In addition, Aurora submitted a NEP on wasm submodules, which, if implemented, would enable a limited form of synchronous execution, or allowing transactions that touch multiple contracts to settle within a single block. Both proposals are still works in progress due to the complexity of the changes. 

On top of these two proposed changes, there is a NEP on shared storage for contract code which could significantly lower the cost of deploying a common contract. These proposals aspire to bring to life the account extension idea, which allows an account to install different modules to different functionalities such as multisig, recovery, proxy, and so on.

For the core section of the roadmap, Pagoda delivered a few important improvements this quarter. Flat storage with value inlining is live on mainnet and brings an 8x improvement to state reads. Work on background writes is also in progress and the protocol team’s initial experiments show that it can potentially reduce the cost of state writes by 3x. In addition, cold storage is fully live on mainnet and drastically reduces the cost of running an archival node.

Pagoda has also made good progress to revamp state sync. With the growth of mainnet state, the previous version of state sync was too inefficient and practically unusable. The new state sync, which uses flat storage to speed up state part generation, allows a node to finish syncing mainnet state within 3 hours. The team is expected to deliver the fully functional version of the new state sync in Q3.

The team has also delivered finite wasm and its integration with nearcore, which improves the security and robustness of NEAR’s contract runtime immensely.

Updates to the roadmap
The experience section of the roadmap remains mostly the same, with two changes worth highlighting. One shift is that the changes required to implement account extension are temporarily on hold as we would like to see the impact on user experience by first emulating the changes through smart contracts. Another change is that the protocol team will work on the storage refund problem to prevent potential faucet-draining attacks in the new onboarding experience.

For the core section of the roadmap, the focus in Q3 will shift to Phase 2 of sharding, which includes both resharding the current mainnet state and turning off the requirement that block producers have to track all shards. This endeavor will take more than one quarter to finish and we will post more updates as we iron out details of the design.

To stay up to date with protocol changes as they happen, or to participate in protocol governance, please join the protocol community group and follow the NEAR Enhancement Proposal (NEP) process.
NEAR Foundation Launches NEAR Horizon
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 26, 2023
Though there have been recent signs of crypto winter thawing, developers have continued to make the most of the current builder’s market. NEAR, in particular, has seen significant growth in new projects and increased adoption over the past year.  

NEAR’s expansion is due in part to some significant upgrades and announcements from its core team. Most recently, NEAR announced its transition to a Blockchain Operating System (BOS), an industry first that further establishes NEAR as the direct entry point into Web3. With the BOS, NEAR is no longer just a Layer 1 — it’s the OS for an open web, free from the centralized platforms of Web2. 

During the announcement, NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin signaled that the transition to the BOS was just the beginning of what’s to come for NEAR. With Consensus in full swing, and NEAR’s presence at the conference, many Web3 enthusiasts and NEAR community members anticipate more exciting announcements and were not disappointed. 

At Consensus, NEAR Foundation announced NEAR Horizon, an accelerator revolutionizing how founders are supported in Web3. Made possible through partnerships with Dragonfly, Pantera, Lyric, Fabric Ventures, Decasonic, Hashed, and others, NEAR Horizon will enable founding teams to scale their projects with a wide range of support. This support will, in turn, enable the rapid growth of great products with real-world value in the NEAR ecosystem.

A revolutionary accelerator for Web3 startups
NEAR Horizon is an exciting opportunity for founder teams looking to build their startups on the BOS. Startups can interact with NEAR Horizon through a double-sided marketplace application that connects founders to each other, and to the people and organizations who are best able to accelerate their growth. 

At launch, the marketplace will include over 15 service providers, 40 mentors, and over 300 backers. Founders in the NEAR ecosystem will have direct self-service access to NEAR Horizon, allowing them to make the connections and generate the resources that will help them succeed. In addition to these immediate resources, founders can apply for credits that cover service costs in critical development areas including marketing, legal, back-office finance, product, and infrastructure. 


For founders looking for additional support and guidance throughout their Horizon journey, the platform will also be equipped with programs facilitated through a NEAR Foundation partner, providing mentorship, business resources, and a direct line to startup capital. These programs are available through a wide range of industry leading groups including Antler, Brinc, FabricX, CV Labs, Blockchain Founders Group, among others. Regardless of the path founders choose to take, NEAR Horizon will provide them with the support they need when they need it most to accelerate the growth of their Web3 projects built on NEAR.

As crypto winter’s thawing hopefully promises the arrival of a crypto spring, NEAR is continuing to build momentum with both founders and investors in the Web3 community. With higher transaction speeds than Ethereum, a strong commitment to its ecosystem, and an industry-first Blockchain Operating System, NEAR has created a direct path toward success for founders. 

Interested in getting involved? Over the next couple of months, the NEAR Foundation will be onboarding projects and founders to NEAR Horizon. If you don’t want to miss the introductions, advice, capital, or hires that come from the marketplace, reach out and get involved today:


NEAR Integrates Wormhole to Launch ZK-Enabled Cross-Chain Communication with Ethereum
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 16, 2023
Driving the evolution of Web3 through innovation and interoperability, bridging technology has become a critical factor in user adoption and functionality. NEAR Foundation has chosen to bolster its multi-chain interoperability by integrating with Wormhole, harnessing the power of cutting-edge Zero-Knowledge (ZK) light clients. 

This strategic move revolutionizes secure Web3 application communication, unlocking vast potential across diverse sectors including DeFi, NFTs, and governance. The integration represents a tangible stride towards a less abstract and more interconnected, trustless Web3. By incorporating Wormhole’s technology, NEAR Foundation envisions a practical shift where cross-chain transactions become efficient, secure, and user-friendly.

NEAR’s unique position as a developer-friendly platform amplifies the impact of this integration, driving the adoption of Zero-Knowledge technology to a wider audience. The NEAR Foundation is not just creating a world of possibility but is actively building it, bringing advanced blockchain solutions to the mainstream.

Signaling a new era of trustless cross-chain communication, this NEAR-Wormhole integration will be explored through the NEAR <> ETH corridor and the promise of Zero-Knowledge bridging.

Wormhole: the key to NEAR’s vision of a multi-chain Web3
Wormhole is forging its place in crypto as the industry-standard cross-chain messaging protocol, reliably facilitating transfers exceeding $35 billion dollars via countless cross-chain messages. In this integration, Wormhole’s role is vital, employing its advanced technology to connect the NEAR ecosystem with over 20 other high-value blockchain networks.

The integration enables synergy of  Wormhole Connect’s technology with NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (BOS) to enhance developer access to multiple chains and diverse liquidity. It will also serve to break down barriers for casual users, blending complex blockchain tech with a user-friendly experience.

Moreover, Wormhole’s integration with NEAR’s BOS presents a significant opportunity for businesses using NEAR. This collaboration simplifies multi-chain interaction and introduces Zero-Knowledge proofs, making it easier for businesses to fully utilize blockchain technology in a straightforward and accessible manner.

Wormhole’s NEAR <> ETH corridor opens opportunities 
Born from this integration is the trustless NEAR <> ETH corridor, an innovation powered by Wormhole and secured by Zero-Knowledge (ZK) Proofs. This marks a shift from NEAR’s traditional Rainbow Bridge, introducing seamless integration of NEAR assets with Wormhole-linked chains.

The NEAR <> ETH corridor represents a new class of zk-enabled bridges, offering heightened interconnectedness between the NEAR ecosystem and a multitude of Wormhole-facilitated applications. This trustless corridor is poised to catalyze more efficient and secure transactions, symbolizing a substantial stride toward a fully interoperable Web3 ecosystem.

Making tomorrow’s crypto-verse trustless and ZK-based
The NEAR and Wormhole integration isn’t just a stride toward the future — it’s a giant leap toward a new era powered by ZK Proofs. As part of the integration work, developers are building the first ZK light clients, which will play a crucial role in supporting the trustless NEAR <> ETH corridor.

ZK light clients promise to revolutionize the bridging experience, discarding the need for trust assumptions and external validation. By offloading most of the computational load to an off-chain entity, these clients optimize storage and compute resources, paving the way for a streamlined and efficient bridging process. This innovation is set to redefine the standards of security and reliability in the blockchain sector.

The integration between NEAR and Wormhole is a decisive step towards a future where cross-chain communication is seamless, secure, and trustless. It’s a future that opens up new horizons for developers and users alike, offering improved interoperability and accessibility. 

With Wormhole, NEAR citizens can engage and interact with other chains in a blink of an eye.


NEAR Foundation Backs Hydra Ventures to Create Web3’s First ‘Fund of Funds’ Investment DAO
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 29, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that it has joined Hydra Ventures, a “fund of funds” investment DAO. A first in the Web3 space, Hydra Ventures is designed to help other investment DAOs get off the ground. 

By partnering with NEAR Foundation, Hydra Ventures will open the doors to the eventual launch of the first investment DAO in the Near ecosystem. 

“The combined expertise of the leaders that have created this fund offers a winning formula that will help provide critical funding to purpose-driven, socially impactful web3 startups,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. “We are delighted to be playing a part in launching this DAO and look forward to seeing the role it will play in developing our ecosystem.”

Decentralizing Web3 investment with DAOs
To power the “fund of funds” investment DAO, Hydra Ventures has raised $10M in capital from NEAR Foundation, MetaCartel Ventures, ConsenSys, 1kx Ventures, Collab + Currency, Nonagon Ventures, CMT Digital, among others. Hydra Ventures aims to take a hands-on approach to support investment DAOs, from community coordination and investment practices to organizational design, incentive design, and back office/operations.
“While the first legally wrapped investment DAOs showed us what was possible, many of them have had major operating flaws which have been exposed over the years,” said Peter Pan, co-summoner of MetaCartel and Partner at 1kx Ventures. “Hydra looks to address many of these problems and ultimately emerge with a fundamentally better model for how investment DAOs should be operated. We are thrilled to have NEAR Foundation’s support in this venture.”

Hydra Ventures is incubated by Thing3 and MetaCartel Ventures (the first and one of the most successful investment DAOs created), and backed by leading founders and thinkers in Web3. MetaCartel has incubated and made investments in several category-leading projects like Sky Mavis, Axie Infinity, Arweave, Open Zeppelin, DAOhaus, Zapper Finance, and Rarible, and were also one of the first investors in Mintbase, an NFT marketplace built on Near. MetaCartel members include Ameen Soleimani (founder, Moloch DAO), Stani Kulechov (founder, AAVE), Roneil Rumburg (founder, Audius), Bobby Ong (founder, Coingecko), RAC (Grammy award winner), Peter Pan (Partner, 1kx Ventures), amongst others.


NEAR & Social Good: A Deep Dive Into Open Forest Protocol
COMMUNITY
July 25, 2022
Humans are waking up to the ecological and psychological benefits of forests. And if civilization is to tackle climate change, then protecting and regenerating forests is one incredibly important tactic. 

But slow and complicated processes dominate the forestation industry, as do high costs and little transparency. This is particularly true in the carbon credit industry, where companies offset their fossil fuel consumption by buying and trading credits derived from forest projects. 

Enter regenerative finance, or “ReFi”, in Web3 parlance. ReFi projects like Open Forest Protocol are using smart contracts to transform how we understand the value of forests. They are bringing much needed transparency, high quality data, and funding opportunities to small and medium sized forest projects and securities. 

With increasing calls to mitigate the effects of climate change, ReFi couldn’t have arrived at a better time. Built on NEAR, OFP is one of a growing number of ReFi projects illuminating a path for how decentralized communities can have positive, real world impact on the environment. 

To get a better sense of how Web3 is tackling ecological issues, let’s take a look at Open Forest Protocol. 

Forest projects before the blockchain
Before crypto, there was much to like about reforestation and forest conservation efforts, says Frederic Fournier, CEO and Co-founder of Open Forest Protocol. He notes that the industry created a common understanding around methodologies used for measuring, reporting and verifying (MRV) tree planting and carbon credits. 

“[But] there is very little to no digital transformation in the industry,” says Fournier, who previously worked in the environmental consulting sector, and managed an NGO that supported sustainable reforestation projects. “Meaning the processes are slow, complicated, expensive and not transparent.”

Olga Dyka, OFP’s Chief Operating Officer, notes that while MRV methodologies are well-developed, none are comprehensive. And although these methodologies can work in Web3, there is rarely room for future developments or improvements. 

“There is also a lack of financing for small or medium-sized projects to ‘get off’ the ground,” she says. “The lack of transparency is that forestation still follows a ‘carbon-sequestered-on paper’ approach in carbon credits generation, offsets, and trade.”

Inside OFP’s smart forest contracts
With Web3, forestration projects can streamline their work in a multiple stakeholder environment. In just a few clicks, anyone can access verified, high quality, and immutable data. 

“It will bring transparency and trust in a system that is today opaque,” says Fournier. “Everyone will have access to the best MRV tools.” 

As Dyka notes, these MRV tools will be free. Reforesting and conserving forests with Web3 technology will, according to Fournier, create a community-based approach. Ideally, it will upend the industry’s siloed and centralized status quo. 

“It will give power to communities and people to value their restoration work,” he says. “And another mindset about how to scale in an open and transparent way.”

With standardized, accessible MRV tools, OFP can open doors for offsetting and carbon credits trading on its protocol. While OFP is still developing these features, the team can easily implement with NEAR smart contracts. 

“It also creates the possibility for many decentralized apps to be built on top of OFP protocol to benefit forestation beyond MRV,” says Dyka. 

To give users access to MRV data, OFP’s smart contracts primarily manage the protocol’s cyclical data upload and validation processes. When a forest project leader uses OFP to measure their trees’ biomass and report on the forest’s health, they interact with the protocol’s front-end interfaces. Project managers can upload certain data points about their trees, such as measurements and photos of individual trees. 

After being compiled in IPFS, these data points are sent at regular intervals to OFP’s distributed group of data validators. Think of these validators as data auditors. They evaluate the legitimacy of the reported data, then assign a binary affirm/deny judgment to each data upload. 

“This judgment is recorded in the project’s data and saved on NEAR’s blockchain,” says Luke Schubert, OFP’s Product Development Lead. “The entire cycle begins again with the forest project manager collecting more data. We have additional smart contracts in development that will enable nature-based asset generation and results-based financing.” 

All OFP users must first create a NEAR account, where forest data is stored as utility NFTs representing individual forest projects. OFP’s dashboard automatically update this forest data over time. 

“We were surprised by how easy it was to integrate the necessary functions of OFP into the larger NEAR infrastructure,” says Schubert. “And the standardized token contracts enabled reliable NFT creation and management. 

Beyond OFP’s front-end and smart contracts, the platform developed and released a mobile app called “Forester” that can collect tree data from the field. 

“The mobile app works offline, enables geo-fenced data collected, and provides a single-directional feed of information from forests to the NEAR blockchain,” says Schubert. “This app is the first of many tools we will provide for forest project managers to report on what is happening within their forests.”

Social good on Open Forest Protocol
While it’s one thing to disrupt the forestation industry, the community-based approach that OFP pursues will also elevate social good. 

For Fournier, one particular social good would be an onboarding process that is easy and open for all. Making OFP’s tools free to use, while allowing generating incentives to profit for the planet and its people, are also game changers. 

“OFP creates opportunities for communities to directly participate in combating the climate crisis along with other stakeholders (‘one person effort also matters’),” says Dyka. “The platform also creates equal opportunities for forestation companies in gaining access to forestation financing which overall results in scaling forestation worldwide.”

The OFP team also sees the protocol empowering both the crypto and climate communities. OFP is an application with real world impact through people and their environment. It can be a model for other Web3 projects working to integrate with traditional industries and the real, physical world. 

“It’s a concrete project that these communities can understand and get involved in,”  Fournier says. “They can see a concrete application of blockchain. It’s a way to create interest in Web3 and its potential applications.” 

But OFP will also have an impact beyond giving small to medium-sized projects, says Rim Berjack, OFP’s Community Development Officer. The protocol will also benefit local communities and indigenous peoples who depend on forests for their way of life. 

“We want to provide a viable alternative to local forest communities and indigenous peoples who depend on their forests, who have been exploited by people using their resources,” says Berjack. “We want to put the MRV and financing tools in their hands. I think more than anything this is a form of social good we are the most excited about. Autonomy and empowerment, which brought many of us to blockchain in the first place.”

Investing in smaller forest projects
OFP can also impact communities, farmers and land stewards by proposing an answer to their restoration efforts. With OFP’s help, the people can support and scale their forest and land use efforts. 

As Dyka points out, small and medium-sized projects in developing communities are getting MRV tools through the OFP dashboard. They now have the ability to run a project in a transparent way. This gives projects more credibility in getting access to potential investors and financial donors. In turn, this will lead to more workplaces and better living conditions in specific regions. 

“Basically, we’re making financial access happen for people who maybe didn’t have it,” says Dyka. “To me it’s about creating equal opportunities wherever people are.”

“My background is in law, and, as lawyers, we’re always in a fight with somebody for something, being in a constant pursuit of truth, equality and fairness for everyone,” she says. “And for me, building OFP is about fighting for truthfulness in the current state of forestation by bringing metrics on public immutable blockchain, which, in turns, unlocks financing for forestation, available everywhere and for everyone.” 

“We are revolutionizing the forestation industry, and we are bringing transparency on-chain—that’s important,” she adds.

Aside from Web3 technology, Fournier believes long-term vision and an entrepreneurial spirit is necessary for new players. Project leaders must envision these efforts over 10 to 20-year timeframes and beyond, if they’re serious about reforestation and forest conservation. 

Going it alone as a forestation startup is most likely impossible. New projects usually seek out the help of non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Fournier says this is common in Kenya, where there are many social and environmental NGOs. 

With OFP, there is now another path. 

“If you provide projects with adequate tools and pre-financing that will come in the second stage with OFP, they could very well start a very small project—a few hectares of restoration—from scratch because it’s completely possible,” says Fournier. “And if they do a good job at that, then they can scale from there and get bigger and bigger.”

The future of OFP and ReFi
Unlike the traditional forestation industry, OFP has plans to keep building and evolving. Over time, more exciting products will build atop OFP’s existing MRV stack. Imagine, for instance, an OFP starter that could be a finance mechanism for projects. 

“There will also be integration with other projects in the Web3 space. Especially integration with carbon credits providers, executing partnerships with other like minded initiatives, and so on,” Fournier says. “The economic downturn turns out to be an opportunity for OFP. It gives us the space to focus on building and communicating about the project’s long term positioning.”

Schubert envisions OFP’s smart contracts evolving in many ways. In the coming months, the team will be open sourcing the OFP codebase. 

“This will enable really cool natural asset financing tools and novel nature-based climate solutions to be built on top of OFP and use the validation oracle we have created,” Schubert explains. “So, while our core smart contracts that manage the cyclical data upload and validation processes might not fundamentally change in the future, new solutions can be developed and plugged into the existing OFP ecosystem.”

Ultimately, OFP plans to create the biggest global ground platform for any and all forestation companies across the globe.

“They will be able to run a project with us and to create a strong community of various stakeholders, who will ensure transparency,” she says. “The world can go through an economic downturn, there may be conflicts, wars, profit or deficits or other force-majeurs, but nobody canceled the next decade’s 1.5C degree temperature rise and the fact that we all somehow are going to live with that. So, we have to keep moving and OFP has stable financing to run the project to reach the planned goals.”
Mantle Ecosystem Gateway Launches on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S)
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 20, 2023
An ecosystem gateway for Mantle, the layer-2 scaling solution built on Ethereum, has launched on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S) to offer a unified point of entry into the Mantle ecosystem. 

Hosted by popular Mantle dApp FusionX, the gateway, built in collaboration with the NEAR community, streamlines the discovery of Mantle applications and helps aggregate components of top dApps including the Mantle Bridge, Agni, Ammos, iZiSwap, FusionX, Gamma, Lendle, and soon Pendle, in one place. 

The gateway offers greater accessibility for developers and users, easier discoverability for the apps they build, and powerful composability. This was all made possible thanks to the B.O.S.

“Mantle has seen some great traction since their launch and we’re very excited to have a Mantle gateway built on B.O.S. Ethereum and DeFi users interested in discovering new projects can now find lots of Mantle apps in one place, with bridging already solved so they can get started right away,” says Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol. “The Mantle gateway demonstrates the value of B.O.S gateways for other L2s and EVM projects looking to increase discoverability.” 

Unlocking the Web3 ecosystem 
Mantle’s development on NEAR is a testament to the protocol’s commitment to creating the foundations for the open web. “We are delighted to ally with NEAR in bringing leading Mantle dApps to a wider community through the Mantle Ecosystem Gateway on B.O.S,” says Arjun Kalsy, head of ecosystem of Mantle. “Through this effort, we look to provide even more support to our dev community, and allow for more cross-pollination in our respective Web3 communities.” 

The Mantle gateway joins a growing list of projects that have partnered with the B.O.S to help unlock the full potential of Web3. A zkEVM B.O.S gateway for the Polygon ecosystem launched on NEAR to help increase accessibility and discoverability for developers, while also improving the user experience for end users exploring L2 ecosystems. 

While the B.O.S is built on NEAR, it offers many benefits  to founders and builders from EVM projects and across the whole Web3 ecosystem. The Blockchain Operating System speeds up the process of building multi-chain experiences, empowering builders from any ecosystem––including EVM projects such as Ethereum layer 2s––to focus on creating great products for users rather than on managing infrastructure. 

Developers can quickly build composable apps for the open web from thousands of flexible components, as well as seamlessly onboard users and increase discoverability across Web3 since every application utilising B.O.S is visible on a common interface. This collaboration brings new capabilities to developers and lets them build apps that can quickly reach more users.


Meet the Builders of the Open Web: Top Speakers at NEARCON ’23
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 19, 2023
If you thought last year’s NEARCON was epic, then wait until you see what’s in store for NEARCON ’23 in Lisbon, kicking off on November 7th. From deep dives into the open web to insightful sessions featuring global leaders in blockchain and the open web, here’s the inside scoop on what to expect at this year’s iconic edition.

What awaits you at NEARCON ’23
NEARCON ’23 is set to be a smorgasbord of innovation and collaboration. Taking place across three venues in Lisbon, including the historic Convento Do Beato, and spanning four days, NEARCON ‘23 attendees will have access to an array of exciting opportunities. From enlightening talks on AI and Web3’s future to hands-on developer hackathons, there’s something for everyone.

You also won’t want to miss exclusive networking sessions that connect you with NEAR and multi-chain enthusiasts and projects from around the globe. Attendees also get a firsthand experience with building on the Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S.).

Meet the Big Brains of NEARCON ’23
There’s an incredible lineup of speakers and thought leaders scheduled for this year’s edition of NEARCON. Here’s a rundown of some of top names you’ll on various stages, panels and sessions:

Mitchell Amador: Founder and CEO of Immunefi. Mitchell is a leading voice in blockchain security and will explore how incentivized bounties enhance security.
James Young: The Co-founder and CCO of Collab.Land will delve into the power of tokenized communities, from governance to engagement.
Samantha Bohbot: Chief Growth Officer at RockawayX. An expert in strategic growth, Samantha will share essential tips for project scalability.
Se Hyun Oh: SVP at SK Telecom. Expect insights into the convergence of telecom, AI, and the open web.
Michael Casey: Chief Content Officer at CoinDesk. Michael will dissect the evolving narratives around cryptocurrency and its impact on the traditional financial sector.
Richard Muirhead: Managing Partner at Fabric Ventures. Hear a venture capitalist’s perspective on what makes a blockchain project investable.
Oleg Fomenko: Co-founder of Sweat Economy. Join the discussion on how blockchain is revolutionizing health and fitness via Move-to-Earn.
Nicolai Reinbold: Global Head of Expansion and Innovation at CV Labs. Nicolai will cover blockchain innovation hubs and their role in nurturing early-stage startups.
Teana Baker-Taylor: Circle’s VP of Policy and Regulatory Strategy for the EU/UK. She’ll address the regulatory landscape surrounding blockchain and cryptocurrencies.
Joy Macknight: The editor at The Banker will offer an overview of how the open web and blockchain are disrupting traditional banking systems.
Check out the complete list of NEARCON 23′ Speakers, full of founders, builders, VCs, and other open web innovators.
Maximizing your NEARCON ’23 experience
While the speakers are a definite draw, NEARCON ’23 is more than just speaker sessions. You can also join the NEARCON IRL Hackathon where developers will have the chance to build directly on the B.O.S and compete for over $140,000 in prizes. In case you didn’t already know, NEARCON is free for hackers participating in the hackathon! At NEARCON ‘23, there’s something for just about everyone.

Four Distinct Paths to Explore at NEARCON ’23
Developers: Engage in technical workshops and learn from the best in the business. These sessions are designed to meet you at any point in your open web journey.
Entrepreneurs: Explore how the open web can revolutionize the way businesses connect and engage with users through innovative products and solutions.
Creators: Discover how the open web can disrupt traditional systems, offering more equitable platforms for creators to get discovered and fairly compensated.
Regulators: Stay up-to-date with the evolving regulations and policies that are shaping the open web, keeping you ahead of the curve.
And don’t forget the networking opportunities, where you’ll get a chance to collaborate and engage in exciting conversations with NEAR community members from around the world.

Don’t miss the future at NEARCON ’23
Your chance to explore the entire NEAR ecosystem and the B.O.S is right around the corner. So, come play a part in driving the open web towards mass adoption. And with General Admission ticket prices still available, NEARCON ‘23 is still a steal for anyone interested in helping shape the future of blockchain and decentralization.

So what are you waiting for? Register for NEARCON ’23 to secure your spot today. And if you’re a Ukrainian living in Portugal, or a student in Portugal or Spain, click those links for more information on how to register and attend NEARCON ‘23 in Lisbon for absolutely free!


NEAR & Social Good: Change Through Crypto
COMMUNITY
July 18, 2022
Harnessing emerging technologies and showing no signs of slowing, social good initiatives focused on bettering society and our planet have become a force in 2022. Despite a rocky crypto market, activism investment and funds focused on environmental, social, and governance factors (ESG) are thriving on NEAR and across the Web3 world. 

Growing to over $500B in 2021, ESG funds are making bold statements on the future of sustainability through innovation. Beyond traditional markets, significant social causes are using the blockchain and reaping benefits for the greater good, combating the ideas that crypto is environmentally wasteful and predatory in its practices. 

With its sustainable and infinitely-scalable blockchain, NEAR Protocol is an ideal platform for social initiatives, which can and often do overlap with tackling climate change. These projects know that NEAR is climate-neutral and committed to funding grants to reimagine business, creativity, and community for a more inclusive and sustainable future. 

From empowering underserved communities of musicians and disrupting big agriculture to supporting earth restoration projects and blazing a new path in community-based governance, countless social good initiatives are gravitating to NEAR. These projects are the perfect building blocks of a global community aligned with the Foundation’s goal: enabling community-driven innovation that ultimately benefits people worldwide.

Breathing life into art through blockchain
Emerging as a collaborative project in 2021 between artists from Nigeria, Cameroon, and Canada, Chapter One Foundation evolved quickly. What started as a collaboration track under DAO Records and the NxM guild has grown into a group of artists “fostering philanthropy and community for other creative in less fortunate circumstances.” 

Generating funds through NFT sales, C1 aims to “create opportunities for the less fortunate, by providing the tools needed to create revenue sources through the blockchain and NFTs.” The project provides up-and-coming artists with the tools, skills, and resources needed to breathe life into their art. Rooted in setting up recording and art facilities, C1 makes these spaces available to people who otherwise wouldn’t have access.

With an open-door policy that welcomes all artists to join, C1 provides the less fortunate with real-world savvy in navigating an ever-changing industry while earning revenue. To participate in this mission, people can contribute and purchase creative works from the C1 store. Under the Chapter One Global Charity Foundation, a staggering 30% of NFT sale proceeds go to the less privileged worldwide. 

By providing artists with much-needed tools to see their vision through from concept to completion, at-risk youth and marginalized populations of creatives now have access to safe, creative spaces. Operating on NEAR, this innovative zone also serves as a platform for creators to hone their art and entertainment industry knowledge. 

For the first time, creators will also have a vested interest in how the industry and its practices evolve. Beyond education and experiential learning, generating revenue through NFT sales creates a positive feedback loop in returning proceeds to C1, allowing the project to scale and expand its reach across the globe. 

Nature is non-fungible
On NEAR, a number of projects are leveraging blockchain technology to tackle climate-related issues. SISU, a community-driven project and DAO, supports earth restoration projects through Web3 funding mechanisms. Operating as a global network of organizations working on climate, SISU engages artists and creatives to contribute and earn while supporting their initiatives.

SISU uses blockchain to create multi-stakeholder, market-driven communities of earth restoration projects to further ecological projects and initiatives through public art and storytelling. Designed as a Web3-powered “human safety net”, SISU supports concrete restoration and conservation projects in local communities worldwide. 

One such project is the breeding of the native honey bees of Sierra Nevada. This honey bee initiative produces multiple positive outcomes. Not only is it a sustainable alternative for income generation and forest conservation, but it’s also a means of recovering and preserving ancestral knowledge from indigenous communities. 

This project is working to recover stingless beekeeping, or meliponiculture, as ancestral knowledge for the La Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta indigenous communities. Through technical assistance, equipment, resources, and infrastructure provision, SISU is restoring beekeeping as a sustainable income alternative. The goals: improve the quality of life of those involved, while guaranteeing the conservation of ecosystems and water sources.

Transforming the way humans connect with food
Lisbon-based Raiz is taking another approach to social and ecological good. This project uses NFTs to help fund vertical farms—the practice of growing crops in vertically stacked layers—in under-utilized urban spaces. Founded by Emiliano Gutierrez, Raiz’s mission is to transform urban areas into epicenters for the growing and harvesting of foods for local communities and restaurants. 

Raiz is ardently opposed to the agriculture industry’s stagnant business model, which ships harvested food across global markets. It aims to bring a renewed focus back to the local community while maintaining incredible taste and nutrients in their crops to disrupt this unsustainable model. As part of their vertical farming revolution, Raiz incorporates controlled-environment agriculture, optimizing plant growth through sustainable technology that directly impacts our planet.

Raiz uses NEAR-powered NFTs to generate yield and offer “tokenized impact for the bold.” Through NFTs, Raiz makes and releases digital artworks of plants linked to impact metrics such as carbon emissions and water savings—significant issues in traditional agriculture and industrial farming markets. 

Raiz is transforming local hydroponic, vertical farming, and solar energy systems into investable crypto assets by linking the physical with the digital. The Raiz NFT model has the potential to be used for other local food-growing efforts, resulting in people worldwide having greater access to tokenized environmental and local impact.

DAOs for positive social change on a global scale
Kin DAO emerged from a real-world co-op that was seeking solutions for the pressing issues of food insecurity, homelessness, poverty, fractured communities, and climate change. Since 2021, founders Asya Abdrahman and Adrian Bello have used blockchain to facilitate activism investments in art, regenerative innovation, and collective land stewardship. 

In June 2022, Kin DAO announced Primordia DAO, a year-long project DAO designed to be experienced as a conceptual art exhibition of village building online and IRL. Founded by Bay Area arts community members, Primordia employs NEAR’s smart contracts to develop decentralized systems, such as a network that could underpin art-based communities or regenerative systems like permaculture. Its founders have created art and educational programs that have served 50,000 people and counting. 

One of Primordia’s missions is providing historically-excluded communities with the skills to springboard them into the digital world by working with them to create collaborative artworks. Primordia DAO develops leaders with the abilities to self-govern, self-build, and establish digital villages based on real-world relationships that can meet the demands of real communities. 

The project will onboard 100 DAOs to NEAR by the end of the year so they can work together to achieve common objectives. As society transitions into the realms of regeneration and community-based government, Primordia is a crucial use case for the future of global coordination and creative community autonomy.

A mission for change starting from within
While a flourishing global community is taking the NEAR Foundation’s mission to improve the lives of the world’s citizens to the next level, NEAR recognizes that change starts from within.  To that end, it is taking unprecedented steps to achieve its mission and serve as a model for sustainable technology. 

NEAR’s blockchain scaling technology, Nightshade, divides computation across parallel “shards,” optimizing the already super cheap, exceptionally fast, incredibly secure, and ecologically friendly platform. Its underlying proof-of-stake (PoS) architecture makes the NEAR Protocol more environmentally-friendly than other blockchains. 

From inception, NEAR Foundation committed itself to climate-neutral certification. In 2021, the foundation engaged South Pole, a global climate solutions provider, to assess its climate footprint. At 174 tons of CO2 per year between the NEAR Foundation, all employees and contractors working on NEAR Protocol, and all validators, NEAR’s carbon footprint is a whopping 500,000 times more carbon efficient than Bitcoin.

NEAR is also committed to the total compensation of remaining exhaust through CO2 offsetting projects. With every transaction completed on the platform, NEAR plants trees on multiple continents to achieve carbon neutrality. 

The beginnings of a lifelong commitment
These projects are just the tip of the iceberg. The NEAR community’s commitment to fostering social change is global in scale and ambition. As the community grows, more and more people are working together to develop real solutions to our most pressing problems. 

Each DAO or other community-based initiatives operating on NEAR prove once and for all that crypto is not just another financial market. 

Stay tuned for a deeper look at NEAR’s commitment to promoting social good. Over the next month, we’ll focus on crypto’s dynamic aspects as a vehicle for positive change. Web3 is helping historically marginalized communities find their voice, and as the mission evolves, NEAR is unleashing a new level of community engagement and activism worldwide.  


Case Study: Indexer’s Mary Korch on Building a Multichain Indexing Platform
NEAR FOUNDATION
August 18, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In these Case Study videos, NEAR Foundation showcases some of these projects. 

In the latest NEAR Foundation Case Study video below, Mary Korch, Customer Success at Indexer, talks about how the project built its Multichain Indexing Platform on NEAR. As Korch notes in the case study, Indexer builds infrastructure to support developers, giving them the data they need to be successful on the NEAR Protocol.

“If you’re a Web2 company looking to build in Web3, and specifically in NEAR, we have done a lot of the hard work for you,” says Korch.  “You’re going to need data from the blockchain but also some off-chain data like metadata and IPFS. We actually have that all at your disposal, and it makes it a lot easier to build your application and get to market a lot quicker.” 
A Deep Dive into DAOs: How DAOs Are Changing Everything
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 17, 2022
The global community is being heard. Web3 continues to surge in popularity as developers and end-users alike instill confidence in decentralized blockchains, where information lives transparently and out in the open, in direct opposition to Big Tech’s private, opaque databases storing massive amounts of data. 

Just as NFTs went viral in 2021, DAOs are now emerging as 2022’s hottest Web3 topic. Within the NEAR community, Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) are exhibiting rapid growth while bringing more project diversity to the ecosystem.

Decision making from the bottom-up 
A decentralized autonomous organization, or DAO, is a formalized, self-governing community, analogous to an internet-native Web2 company—where control is centralized. Owned and managed by its members, a DAO carries out a set of instructions determined by prewritten smart contracts, with voting required by members for any changes to be implemented. At its core, the DAO has a built-in treasury that no individual has the authority to access without the approval of the group, fostering the “trustless” environment championed by Web3 platforms. 

The first-ever DAO, created in 2016, made waves when its token sale raised the equivalent of $120 million USD, making it one of the largest crowdfunding campaigns in history. While the DAO’s underlying principles and core values remain the same, they have experienced a remarkable evolution in the last several years.

Uniquely Web3 with unmatched power 
In 2022, new Web3 users will find DAOs quick to set up, global in scale, extremely customizable, and exceptionally transparent. Think of them as a toolbox that invites anyone to create a business structure with elegant simplicity and flexibility baked in. As such, an immense diversity of structures and scenarios emerge from them. Flat or hierarchical, open to everyone or members-only, the power is invested in the stakeholders to determine how the community should be governed. 

The power of DAOs is being harnessed right now by communities to advance a number of missions, made possible by NEAR’s extremely fast, super secure and infinitely scalable protocol. In grants giving, DAO members vote and collectively decide which people and projects to fund. Businesses can track owners’ equity and elect managers to make day-to-day decisions, while investors utilize DAOs to pool funds and vote on strategy and decisions. Clubs of any kind can use the DAO toolbox to elect leaders and decide where to spend group funds.

The DAOs on NEAR are diverse, creative, and boundless in terms of growth. Reinventing the social internet, decentralizing finance, providing structure for various Guilds, and working in areas like legal and software development, these are just a few examples of DAOs that leverage NEAR’s sharded blockchain infrastructure. 

The types and number of DAO use cases grow daily, and its true potential is just beginning to be realized. 


Together we can do so much 
The lion’s share of DAO community growth on NEAR can be seen in blockchain infrastructure and the decentralized finance, or DeFi, space. By total assets, the largest DAOs are Aurora, a token exchange bridge between NEAR and Ethereum, and Octopus, a platform for launching and running Web3 independent, custom blockchains, known as “appchains”. 

DAOs don’t stop at providing structure for organizations blazing entirely new trails. They are also serving as the foundation for organizations challenging our preconceptions of social networks and even music recording and distribution.

Feiyu, a picture-based social network on NEAR, allows users to express creativity through memes and GIF sharing. In its novel take on social media, it all happens in an NFT-based metaverse where users earn tokens or NFT items for participating in the community.

Elsewhere on NEAR, DAO Records is reimagining the record label, building tools that will help write the future of the music industry, while working to fairly compensate musicians for their songwriting and recording work. Its founders are encouraging artists to release and package new music as audio NFTs, whose smart contracts allow for an entirely more equitable royalty structure, in perpetuity.

On DAO-powered social platform t² (short for time²), launching in late 2022, users explore a world of narratives “curated by time.” Feature articles are created, curated, and propagated under a curation market mechanism where all participants are fairly rewarded for the network value they contributed. t² acts as the first organization in the Web3 space attempting to monetize human time with the consensus achieved by “Proof of Attention.” 

Supercharging the NEAR community
DAO launchpads are gearing up the NEAR community through platforms that allow individuals to join forces with others and create guilds for meaningful projects and more. 

Sputnik DAO, a hub for NEAR’s DAO ecosystem, has a platform that welcomes and rewards creators of all kinds within the NEAR community. Individuals can receive rewards by submitting proposals to existing DAOs, it’s that simple. Meanwhile, developers are able to quickly and efficiently build apps on Sputnik because it makes use of coding languages that are already widely known, such as Rust and AssemblyScript. Paired with NEAR’s support and community engagement through Near Academy and the NEAR Certified Developer program, Sputnik is approaching 250 DAOs with a total of nearly 20,000 transactions completed on-chain.

Helping propel NEAR’s ecosystem to become one of crypto’s most diverse, AstroDAO is empowering groups anywhere in the world to make decisions together, collectively. In less than 10 minutes, and without a line of code, everyday users are able to launch a DAO using AstroDAO’s powerful platform. With over 100 DAOs and counting, and a total locked value approaching 90,000 $NEAR, AstroDAO is now a catalyst helping to bring communities together that thrive in the NEAR ecosystem.

The key to AstroDAO’s early success has been a feature set that has been incredibly well-executed on their platform, powered by NEAR. Central tenants are democratic by default, ensuring that decisions like distributing funds and member admissions happen through an intuitive and transparent voting process. Thanks to smart contracts, funds are held in a treasury and always distributed through a community-defined process. Who votes and how it works can be precisely configured to meet a community’s preferred operating style. 

Extremely versatile, DAOs act as one component of NEAR Protocol’s commitment to facilitate the decentralization of the network to a worldwide community on a fast, secure, and scalable blockchain. Through their democratic, flexible, and collaborative foundations, DAOs are empowering like-minded individuals to come together and take action in a truly global way. 

Robust and disruptive in nature, prepare yourself as 2022 shapes up to be the year of the DAO, powered on NEAR.
Women in Web3 Changemakers: Zoe Leavitt
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 17, 2023
“Trust yourself. Believe in yourself. Having that trust and belief that if there’s something you really believe in, you can really take it forward,” says Zoe Leavitt, founder and CEO of Glass, the first web three platform purpose built for the $1.5 trillion alcohol industry.

Leavitt is one of the 10 finalists of the 2023 Women in Web3 Changemakers List, an annual competition designed to champion women pushing boundaries in the space. Leavitt, along with nine other outstanding candidates, are showing the industry the change women are bringing about during the advent of the Open Web. 

Watch an extended NEAR Foundation video interview with Zoe Leavitt below.

The potential of the Open Web 
For Leavitt however, the world of web3 wasn’t where she started out. Working at the venture capital arm of InBev, the world’s largest brewing company, she saw the billions being spent by brands like Budweiser, Michelob Ultra and Stella Artois spend billions on marketing. 

Events, sponsorships, billboards and more, all designed to reach people during crucial purchasing moments and celebratory occasions. But, says Leavitt, there were no real direct digital connections between alcohol brands and alcohol consumers. It was here she saw first hand how Web3 technology could disrupt the beverage industry as she knew it. 

“I really saw massive potential for this new technology to help bridge those gaps, to better connect consumers in that moment to their favourite drinks brands, and then enable folks to earn rewards for their brand engagement and get more value out of their drinks and social occasions.”

Historically brands were not permitted to form direct relationships. But through careful collaboration with regulators and blockchain technology, Glass has emerged as the world’s first regulatory compliant loyalty service for alcohol brands built on Web3. 

Just like you don’t need to know how to code to visit a website, you don’t need to understand web3 to use GLASS. When users sign up and create an account, a wallet is also generated, creating a secure way for users to accrue points and rewards with their favourite drinks brands. 

Neither GLASS nor the brands have access, but you can log in any time with your email address and password. No blockchain knowledge is required. What Leavitt discovered is that Web3 technologies offered a new way of thinking about ownership. 

In web3, you and your identity come first, rather than the platform. In other words, when you earn points those points belong to you, not to GLASS or the brands. Because you own your own points, you can take them with you to access a range of redemption opportunities across sports, music, entertainment, dining, and more.Beverages can enhance social occasions, anywhere, any time. Now, your points and rewards can, as well.

Unlocking the Open Web 
In a little over a year, Glass has already started working with big brands like Hotaling & Co and Lobos Tequila, a high-end spirit brand backed by LeBron James and Arnold Schwarzenegger. 

While helping the alcohol industry make the switch to Web3 technologies has been challenging, Leavitt has had her own challenges too. “While there are of course the technical challenges, there still is the issue of how to communicate this to the average consumer?”

For Leavitt, it was all about focusing on what matters: the customer. Bringing her unique skill set to Web3 brought with it a belief that until you’ve found a compelling reason for someone to try something new, it’s back to the drawing board. 

“The consumer doesn’t even need to care if this is on web three or not,” says Leavitt. On the Glass website, the technology that powers this disruptive company sits in the background. It’s all about how this improves and enhances the experience for customers. This focus on the end user, is something she feels women can and do bring to the Open Web table. 

“I feel like with the influx of certainly women, but also the next generation of web three founders, we’re seeing a lot more folks come from other industries and identified this real need that crypto can now solve. Women really have this opportunity to bring these new perspectives and bring these web three tools into a wider range of use cases and industries.” 

Does she have any advice for women thinking about getting into this space? 

“Everything doesn’t have to be perfect when you first launch, it’s really about being obsessed with that consumer problem, that industry problem. You have the skills, you have the industry insight, take the plunge.”
Meet the Startups in OWC’s Batch II: Accelerating Web 3.0 Adoption
COMMUNITY
February 10, 2021
At NEAR, we’re excited at the prospect of championing and uplifting promising Web 3.0 founders – it’s the reason the Open Web Collective (OWC)was created. As a protocol-agnostic collective, user-centrism and metric-driven experimentation are at the core of what NEAR does. By bringing together the right resources, VCs, and seasoned advisors, NEAR helps founders de-risk, focus, and accelerate their open web projects.

Since Batch I concluded in autumn 2020, the nine startups in the cohort – 1inch Exchange, Arterra, Snowball Money, Leaf Global Fintech, BoxScore, Snark Art, Upshot, Brink Exchange, and OP Games – have become integral players in the Web3 ecosystem.

1inchExchange is now the second-most-used application in DeFi, according to ETH Gas Station. 1inch has exchanged over $9 billion (USD) in crypto-assets and completed over $700K (USD) in total swaps. In December 2020, 1inch distributed over 90 million governance tokens to their users, liquidity providers, and community, making the application even more decentralized.

SnowSwap is an automated market maker and decentralized exchange for yield-bearing liquidity provider token swaps. As of February 4, 2021, SnowSwap’s total value locked exceeded $1.5 million (USD). Among the novel financial instruments introduced by SnowSwap is the eth2SNOW pool designed to incentivize ETH2 adoption. The eth2SNOW pool allows users to enter, exit, and swap between popular ETH2 staking services with low slippage.

Leaf Global Fintech relaunched its Leaf Wallet in September 2020. Since then, LeafGlobal has helped over 1,410 refugees in Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda gain access to digital financial services. As of December 2020, Leaf has successfully completed over 5,600 transactions worth $32,595 (USD).

NEAR is excited to share the participants in Batch II. This cohort’s members are focused across three innovation areas to reflect the stages and target markets of this stellar group of builders.

The Decentralized Revolution Continues with Batch II
Meet our Open Web Builders
Open web teams are builders focused on mission-critical infrastructure for the open web, such as privacy, accessibility, data management, and identity.

Nym is building the next generation of privacy infrastructure for Web3. Fear of big tech, privacy, and data intrusion is driving consumers to adopt a privacy-cautious attitude.The Nym mixnet is fully decentralized, with no trusted third parties such as a VPN. NYM supports a high volume of service and low latency through network incentives.

Verida (Ver/id/a = Verified, Identity, Data) is developing the future of decentralized data. Verida enables developers to build web and mobile apps where users own their data. Their library provides decentralized single sign-on, data sharing, and profile management that fully integrates with the Verida Vault.

Sarcophagus is a general purpose decentralized dead man’s switch built on ethereum and Arweave. It is triggered if the human operator becomes incapacitated due to death, loss of consciousness, or being physically removed from control. Use cases include but are not limited to wills and trusts, password recovery, credential passdown, political activism, key material backup, and emergency communication.

Meet our Open Finance Builders
Open finance teams are pioneers emerging from stealth mode and challenging traditional finance. The future of fintech is interoperable, user-centric, transparent, and accessible to everyone.

Kamix helps the African diaspora send remittances to family for free. Currently operating in Cameroon, they will soon launch in Nigeria.

Heo Finance is the first stablecoin-powered crowdfunding platform that pays out rewards to donors. Each donation results in daily farming of tokens that allows donors to receive 2X to 10X their donation in return.

Meet our DApp Builders
DApps are the next generation of web applications; promising the convenience we’ve come to expect from traditional applications with new key features that create trustless environments, lower barriers to services, and develop open markets with liquidity.

Vezt is the first mobile app where music fans can share royalty rights for songs and recordings. Users can buy royalty rights for artists such as Maluma, Panic! At The Disco, and Blond Don.

PESA is creating a decentralized carrier that transforms voice, cellular, and WiFi networks into tradable resources. Currently, PESA has a partnership with 37 airlines for in-flight internet and serves more than 68 million hotspots.

Hash Rush is an online sci-fi/fantasy RTS “Play-to-Earn” blockchain-enabled game. VZ studio will transition to a platform-as-a-service in the future, empowering game developers with a suite of tools to create in-game economies using blockchain.

MintGate is turning any online content into exclusive rewards. MintGate’s token economy incentivizes early followers to use their network and resources to support a community or a creator, and then redistributes the added-value to the backers.

Paras lets users create, trade, and collect digital art cards on NEAR Protocol. Since its release in December 2020, Paras has onboarded 70+ artists, who have released 472 minted cards with a trading volume of over $35,000 USD from 700+ transactions.

 

OWC Batch II cohort member teams and founders
Partner & Mentor Spotlight
A critical part of the OWC mission and value comes from the mentors who work with the cohort teams throughout their OWC journeys. These mentors, guest speakers, and advisors are an essential part of the OWC culture. By sharing their expertise, wisdom, and guidance, they create real, lasting relationships and results for the next generation of Web3 founders.

The current OWC Mentors and Partners are: Maria Shen, Jesse Walden, Kartik Talwar, Tara Tan, Jonathan Kol, Jake Brukhman, Ivan Bogatty, Evan Feng, Tom Serres, James Zhang, Joyce Yang, Jocy Lin, Damir Bandalo, Pantera Capital, Brex, CoinFund, Bollinger Investment Group, AdColony, and GreenField One.

Some of the OWC Batch II Mentors
Congratulations to all the members of Batch II! These are the Web3 teams to watch. Stay tuned for more updates from the teams.

Every Tuesday, OWC invites builders, investors, and entrepreneurs to share experiences and expertise on the OWC podcast and YouTube. We also invite you to join our community by subscribing to our newsletter and following us on Twitter.


Limitations of Zilliqa’s Sharding approach
DEVELOPERS
August 29, 2018
Zilliqa published a blog post on their sharding design today.

It is evident that if you don’t have sharding from day 1, your blockchain has no chance of scaling with adoption. Building sharding after the fact is extremely hard. For instance, Ethereum has one of the strongest engineering teams in the blockchain space, and yet their sharding release was pushed back yet again. In their situation, integrating sharding into the system is similar to changing a car engine while the car is driving.

Zilliqa is one of the very few protocols that promises sharding, thus we followed it closely from the beginning.

I was the engineer #1 at a database company called MemSQL. MemSQL builds a distributed analytics platform that has large clusters deployed at Goldman Sachs, Uber, Comcast, Akamai and many other enterprise companies. While at MemSQL, I was responsible for its sharding implementation. Since then, I’ve co-founded Near Protocol, which has two other early MemSQL engineers who were responsible for cross-shard transactions and complex distributed joins, as well as four ex-Google engineers.

In the past, we have built sharding that powers large clusters in production and processes millions of transactions per second per aggregator node. From our experiences, we know well how to implement sharding on complex systems and what practical issues it will have.

To come back to Zilliqa post, the essence of their message can be summarized in several bullet points:

Execute all the single-shard transactions in parallel;
Do not execute transactions that affect the same smart contract in parallel;
Do not execute any transaction that affects more than one shard in parallel with any other transaction.
Besides that, while not explicitly stated in the blog post, it follows that Zilliqa doesn’t shard state (this Ethereum FAQ provides the explanation of difference between sharded state and sharded processing).

Executing only single-shard transactions in parallel
Only executing in parallel transactions for which the transaction initiator and the smart contract are on the same shard might not be a big problem. In Fleta, the payments are entirely designed on the idea that shards can be treated interchangeably. It doesn’t quite work for Zilliqa, since in Fleta the shard is dictated by the sender, while in Zilliqa it is dictated by the shard of the contract, but it suggests that a similar idea might be applicable.

No state sharding
Not sharding the state makes our lives easier. For example, if the state is sharded, then even the very first example in Zilliqa’s blog post becomes obsolete: assigning the payment to the shard of the sender would not be enough, since the shard of the sender would not be able to update the state for the receiver. As a result, a task as simple as processing payments becomes very complex once the state is sharded. However, It is also worth noting that even in the absence of sharding by state, assigning payments to the sender’s shard only works if the accounts are represented as UTXO. If accounts store the accumulated amount, then two shards processing transactions with the same receiver will apply conflicting updates to the receiver’s account.

Nevertheless, not sharding by state, while simplifies the system design, imposes a huge limit on the scalability of the system. The only reason why Ethereum nodes can still store the entire state is that Ethereum only processes 14 transactions per second. Once a system processes thousands of transactions per second, the state will explode, since transactions do leave a trace on the state. Introducing sharding by the state later will be as hard as introducing sharded processing into modern non-sharded blockchain protocols.

Not executing transactions that affect the same smart contract in parallel
Similarly, not sharding smart contract processing, while making the implementation simpler, limits the scalability of a protocol. Ultimately, in any ecosystem, only a few applications dominate the usage, and as Zilliqa scales to thousands of shards, five top dApps will have to reside in five shards and be limited by both the shard’s processing power (and its storage once sharding state is introduced).

With the limitations described above and while also not processing contracts that by design affect multiple shards in parallel, Zilliqa will just make another incremental change in the landscape of scalable blockchains. They might outperform EOS, Thunder, and Algorand (or at least provide better decentralization than the former two), but are not future-proof, and such limitations will prevent them from scaling with the demand for the decentralized applications platform.

The area of research concerned with the execution of distributed transactions has a long history, and shall not be ignored in the development of sharded blockchain protocols.

For example, implementations of Map-Reduce, or generally engines that involve parallel processing, shuffles, and aggregations, have been used for parallel execution of complex transactions for more than a decade.

Why then do we not see an emergence of sharded blockchain protocols that are powered by techniques proven in the industry? The primary reason is that building distributed systems in the presence of failures is an extremely complex engineering task. The number of production-tested distributed database systems that are not coming from engineering giants such as Amazon, Microsoft, Google or Facebook, who have access to the best-distributed systems engineering talent, is very small.

From this perspective, Near Protocol, with its exceptional team of distributed engineers is uniquely positioned to build a sharded decentralized applications engine.

At this stage, we do not have our sharding technical paper finished — but we will release it soon. The way we develop our approach is more practical in nature, where we first build a prototype to test all of our hypotheses. In a field as complex as distributed systems writing a whitepaper before having a working implementation is often a rushed decision, although it seems to be a widely adopted approach for blockchain projects.

At a high level, transactions in Near are split into a series of parallel “map” steps, interleaved by “shuffle” steps, and the state and execution of each smart contract is sharded. This enables execution of arbitrarily complex programs in parallel. Near also doesn’t introduce its own programming language and instead relies on the entire ecosystem of transpilers to WebAssembly, as well as access to the state in the form of SQL queries.

Stay tuned for our sharding technical paper!

To follow our progress you can use:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Medium — https://medium.com/nearprotocol
https://upscri.be/633436/

Thanks to Bowen Wang, Aliaksandr Hudzilin, Mikhail Kever for helping putting together this post.
NEAR Web Wallet Security Update
COMMUNITY
August 4, 2022
The recent wallet hacks on other platforms have brought to light potentially serious security issues connected to the use of common analytics tools in Web3. In light of those hacks, we are sharing a perspective on a recent experience involving similar tools.

On June 6th, 2022, the NEAR Wallet team received a bug report indicating that sensitive information had been shared with a third party. The issue was fixed promptly the same day.

While the team was aware of this threat, and careful to sanitize data collected by the third party service, a code change nevertheless resulted in the collection of sensitive data for some users who had used email or SMS recovery with their wallets. Thankfully, @Hacxyk caught this before us and submitted the finding to our security team on June 6th (for which they have earned a bounty). The wallet team immediately remediated the situation, scrubbed all sensitive data, and identified any personnel who could have had the ability to access this data. 

To date, we have found no indicators of compromise related to the accidental collection of this data, nor do we have reason to believe this data persists anywhere.

Regardless, we no longer allow users to create accounts using email or SMS for account recovery. Despite having no evidence of compromise, we strongly recommend that users who have used email or SMS recovery options in the past rotate their keys. This can be accomplished by visiting wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com, either by enabling a Ledger device (your most secure option and highly recommended) or enabling passphrase security. After doing this, users should disable email or SMS recovery.

With the transition of the open source wallet codebase to the team at My NEAR Wallet, many improvements are in the works. 

We remind our users that the security of wallet accounts is of utmost importance to us–and it doesn’t stop with us either. User choices and behavior also impact security. Please consider using a hardware device, like a Ledger, to secure your wallet. Use only trusted and secured devices when creating and accessing your wallet. Never give out your recovery phrase or private keys.

You can learn more about the future of wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com here:

blog/near-opens-the-door-to-more-wallets/

The MyNearWallet team is also actively improving the security of wallets as outlined here:

https://medium.com/mynearwallet-blog/mynearwallet-security-statement-fd24265d91f2
NEAR Weekly On-Chain Data Report: December 16
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 16, 2022
As part of the Foundation’s commitment to transparency, each week it will publish data to help the NEAR community understand the health of the ecosystem. This will be on top of the quarterly reports, and the now monthly funding reports. 

You can find the Quarterly Transparency Reports here. (The Q3 report will be published next week.)

Last week’s On-Chain Data Report can be found here. 

The Importance of Transparency
Transparency has always been one of NEAR Foundation’s core beliefs. Openness to the community, investors, builders, and creators is one of the core tenets of being a Web3 project. 

In recent months, in response to community frustration, the Foundation has endeavored to do more. This NEAR Weekly On-Chain Data Report is just one of the ways in which the Foundation is being more proactively transparent.  

New Accounts and Active Accounts
New Accounts are defined as new wallets created on the NEAR blockchain. While there was a decline in new accounts between the last week of November and the first week of December, this figure rose from an average of 14,000 per day to approximately 24,000 per day this week. New accounts reached a weekly high of 25,001 on December 12th.

This puts last week’s New Accounts data in line with November’s average figure of 24,000 wallets per 24 hours. As noted last week, the peak for account creation in Q4 was September 13, during which 130,000 new wallets were created in a single day. Collectively, these numbers equate to nearly 2M total wallets on the NEAR blockchain.

The Daily Number of Active Accounts measures the number of NEAR wallets making on-chain transactions. Over the last week, Active Accounts hit a high of 92,440 before trending down to about 51,000 per day. 

Historically, there have been highs of more than 100,000 active accounts on NEAR. The high for Active Accounts on any one day in Q4 of 2022 was logged on September 14, during which 183,000 accounts were active.

New Contracts and Active Contracts
Smart contracts created on NEAR are programs stored on a blockchain that run when predetermined conditions are met. The Daily Number of New Contracts is valuable as a metric because it gives the community a way of measuring the NEAR ecosystem’s health and growth. If there are more active contracts, it follows that projects are more actively engaging with the NEAR protocol. 

This week, the daily number of New Contract has been trending upward, whereas last week it rose and fell. A low of 17 New Contracts was measured on December 11th,, before falling to 50 on the 14th. A weekly high of 57 contracts were created on December 13th. 

Active Contracts measure contracts executed during a 24-hour period. This metric also trended upward this week, with 640 measured on December 11th and and a high of 797 Active Contracts created on December 13th. 

Used Gas and Gas Fee
Gas Fees is a term used to describe the cost of making transactions on the NEAR network. These fees are paid to validators for the network services they provide to the NEAR blockchain. Gas fees incentivize validators to secure the network. 

In the last week, Used Gas on NEAR (PetaGas) was measured at a high of 7,569 on December 11th and 6,758 on the 14th. To learn more about Gas on NEAR, check out the NEAR White Paper. (Rises in gas used can be attributed to many factors, with a common one being increased user activity on the NEAR network.) 

Over the last week, there has been a slight drop in the Gas Fee (in NEAR), which correlates with a drop in Used Gas. On December 11th, the Gas Fee was measured at 756, before falling to 675 on the 14th. 

Daily Transactions
The Daily Number of Transactions illustrates the number of times the blockchain logged a transaction. The data from this week showcases an increase in the number of transactions, which was also the case over the previous week. Daily Number of Transactions hit a weekly high of 439,660 on December 11th before falling to 373,335 on the 14th. 
Introducing the NEAR Foundation
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 13, 2020
The Why of NEAR
When Alex, Illia and the rest of the early team came together in 2018 to explore the ideas that would eventually become the NEAR Protocol, we each used slightly different words to express a single feeling — that the trends of both governments and corporations over the past decade have made it significantly more difficult to drive and distribute innovation than was the case before.

Each of us saw that developers and entrepreneurs need a better set of tools and it was clear that decentralized technologies offer a powerful new opportunity. Most promisingly, the blockchain technology pioneered by Bitcoin and extended by Ethereum uses a fully decentralized architecture to create a system where developers can build apps that have access to a new way of storing and transferring value which enables the development of disruptive business models.

The NEAR Project was born to make those ideas useful for a much wider group of participants. NEAR provides a highly performant open source backbone for running applications that tap into the flow of high value money and data. In today’s world, any app that isn’t a static HTML page can benefit from these tools. NEAR is the first decentralized application platform to allow these applications to reach mainstream usage because they are both performant and usable.

But the NEAR Purpose is larger than just the NEAR Protocol:

Our purpose is to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world.

When we first assembled these words, they struck like a gong and it was clear we had finally articulated the Why which brought us together in the first place. Let’s look at each piece of this statement:

“Our purpose is…” “We” are a wide-ranging collective of developers, entrepreneurs and visionaries who have endorsed this purpose and begun working towards its enablement. While we share the same reason why we are here, we operate across many different areas of the ecosystem and in multiple entities and the world. There is no single leader or controller of this Purpose; it is permissionless.

“…to enable…” We aren’t here to do all the work ourselves… we are emphatically here to create the platform, tools and environment in which others can help themselves. That is how we achieve the greatest leverage for change.

“…community-driven innovation…” Many of the most important innovations which drive today’s businesses grew out of the collaborative nature of the early web and the openness of the entrepreneurial community in general. When the community is allowed to permissionlessly drive innovation, the scope of ideas will always exceed that which can be created through the top-down dictates of a single company or government.

“…to benefit people…” Not all innovation is created equal and we are specifically motivated by those innovations which can be harnessed to improve the condition of real people rather than finding better ways to weaponize their psychology against them as too many of today’s tools do.

“…around the world.” Not all innovation is distributed evenly around the world and so we must ensure that artificial barriers which prevent individuals from accessing markets, information or freedom are overcome.

The NEAR Foundation
While we are excited to say that the NEAR Protocol MainNet genesis occurred on April 22, 2020, NEAR is more than just a blockchain. It is a full suite of tools and protocols and components that are being researched and developed by world class teams who are distributed across the globe. Because of the fractured nature of the creators and the differing goals of each tool that makes up the NEAR platform, there is no single project which represents the fulfillment of the above-mentioned Purpose. Rather, it is the sum of the parts which do so.

The NEAR Foundation (https://near.foundation) is, at the broadest level, the steward of the *full* NEAR purpose. This foundation is an independent nonprofit entity based in Switzerland whose charter directly contains the words of that Purpose. To fulfill it, the Foundation plays a supporting and coordinating role between the players of the ecosystem. It is the lighthouse which helps keep the ecosystem oriented towards the North Star of that Purpose.

The Swiss “Stiftung” (German for “foundation”) structure, which the NEAR Foundation uses, is shared by some of the highest profile projects like Ethereum and Polkadot for a reason. This structure is neither flexible nor simple to operate because there is very strict regulatory oversight within the highly regulated Swiss jurisdiction. Stiftungs are legally bound to pursue their Purpose and funds that have been given to them cannot be removed for any reason except the fulfillment of that Purpose. These reasons are why most decentralized projects have opted for simpler or more flexible legal structures. But they are precisely the reasons why the Swiss Stiftung is the gold standard for projects who are operating reputably, transparently and with positive intentions.

NEAR is a global community effort which could become the backbone for the global economy so it is important to everyone building it — and building *on* it — that everything about it is held to the highest standard. Thus, we have worked to make sure everything from the structure of the Foundation to the code produced in support of the project are set up in a way that engenders trust.

To be clear, there will always be some tradeoffs between effective execution and community involvement, between transparency and privacy, and between short term decisions and long term value creation. But we would rather acknowledge those tradeoffs up front and will do our best to address them as openly as possible so the community has the trust it should in a project of this scope and magnitude.

The Foundation Council
A Swiss Stiftung is directed by an independent council which is similar to a corporate board of directors but with greater regulatory oversight. These members have the power to guide and ratify decisions of the Foundation but they can be removed by the regulatory authority if they are failing to pursue the Foundation’s purpose.

While the Foundation has obviously been operational for some time now, I am proud to officially introduce the first NEAR Foundation Council for the first time. These members were chosen for their particular blend of skills and outstanding reputation within the community:

Mona El Isa

is a serial entrepreneur with a deep history in both traditional finance and blockchain. She is currently the founder and CEO of Avantgarde Finance and previously founded Melonport which built the Melon protocol. As part of Melonport, Mona oversaw the first successful handoff of power from a blockchain foundation to fully decentralized governance.

Richard Muirhead

is a successful founder, operator and allocator in the technology space. He co-founded Orchestream in network management (LSE/NASDAQ in 2000, now part of Oracle), founded Tideway in application management (acquired in 2009 by BMC) and led Automic Software in business automation (acquired in 2016 by CA Technologies). Then as co-founder of Firestartr he backed firms like Tray, Citymapper and Transferwise; as GP at OpenOcean (founders of MySQL” and MariaDB) backed Truecaller, Bitrise and Supermetrics. This evolved into leading the Europe-based Fabric Ventures, successor to Firestartr and sister to OpenOcean. The Fabric team specifically backs entrepreneurs in the decentralized app and Web3 arena like Orchid, Keep, Polkadot, Messari and, as I’m happy to finally share, NEAR too.

Illia Polosukhin

is a gifted technologist and entrepreneur who is cofounder and CEO of Near Inc, a company which has done much of the early research and development work for the NEAR project. Illia formerly managed a team at Google Research which worked on core question-answering capabilities and he co-developed the Tensorflow machine learning library used by the majority of applications in machine learning. He has been a driving force behind NEAR from its earliest inception.

Also of note, Ali Yahya has joined as a nonvoting advisor and observer of the council. Ali is an engineer who formerly excelled in Google’s Brain and Moonshot divisions and who is currently a partner at Andreessen Horowitz. He brings both technical depth and strategic guidance to the Foundation.

As you can see, this initial council — which is populated with successful execution-oriented entrepreneurs and technologists who have been working together since last year — is specifically designed to provide NEAR with the support it needs to build its technical infrastructure and deliver its vision to help developers and founders across the world. I’m privileged to support them and to have their support on this journey.

How the Foundation will Operate
There are many models for the operation of nonprofits and foundations but few which create the kind of operational efficiency, clarity of vision and quality of output which are absolutely necessary to deliver world class software and seed a global ecosystem. Technological development doesn’t behave the same way as charitable giving and there is no reason to confuse the two models.

The NEAR Foundation stewards a purpose without borders or boundaries and thus its operations will span the globe. We are competing with massive technology companies to marshall the best talent in the world to solve some of the hardest technological and societal challenges of our time. It will require significant skills and resources to attract world class teams and coordinate the governance of the protocol as it grows.

To achieve such an ambitious purpose, the NEAR Foundation has to combine the best practices of a high growth technology project with the purpose-driven nature of a nonprofit. Our DNA is fundamentally entrepreneurial. Everyone who is involved knows that we have to hold ourselves to the same standards of operational excellence that drive successful disruption in other industries.

In the path towards realizing its purpose, the NEAR Foundation exists to address a number of specific challenges in the NEAR ecosystem:

Coordination
Allocation
Advocacy
Governance
Let’s look at each of these in greater depth.

1. Coordination
This ecosystem is made up of an ever-growing number of participants. The research, development and evolution of the NEAR Project requires coordinating a number of participants. During the early phases of the ecosystem, this means providing technical leadership for the design of NEAR Protocol and related tooling plus gathering those teams who can best build, test and deploy applications related to it.

As the ecosystem grows, we anticipate the scope of coordination to increase across a wider portfolio of tools and groups. In particular, the most important asset we have is our broader community of developers, entrepreneurs and end users so the Foundation will do all it can to provide them with the framework within which they can organize to support each other while still remaining a nonessential part of their operations.

2. Allocation
For the ecosystem to grow, its participants need to be given sufficient incentives to drive their participation. Our early mission is to do so by ensuring that the protocol itself creates the proper incentives to drive adoption but many aspects of the ecosystem development, including the development of the core protocol itself, can only be done with additional assistance.

The Foundation will drive its financial and technical resources to support teams at all layers of the ecosystem. On the financial side, this will include a balance of grant funding (for projects, teams or communities unable to support themselves) and possibly also participatory funding (eg incubation, acceleration and traditional investment). On the technical side, this includes work across the spectrum from advisory to coordinating the direct support of projects building on NEAR who need it to overcome their own technical issues.

3. Advocacy
When building something completely new, the biggest obstacle is that, by default, no one cares. To fulfill our purpose, we will need to raise the awareness of this new suite of tools and the problems they solve among end users, developers, regulators, governments, businesses and beyond. Each of these groups will require a different approach but education is core to each of them so the NEAR Foundation will be well invested in this effort.

This explicitly includes empowering local communities to host meetups, run workshops, organize hackathons, write documentation and otherwise do whatever it takes to help bring new participants into the ecosystem and up to speed. This is an emphatically collaborative effort across a wide range of entities that make up the NEAR ecosystem.

4. Governance
As part of a decentralized ecosystem, the NEAR Foundation exists to steward the purpose of that ecosystem through servant leadership. While the structure of the Foundation is designed from the start to be independent and nonessential, we want to ensure that it is serving the key stakeholders of our ecosystem in a way which is representative of their interests.

To that end, the community will play an active part in each of the key activities the foundation undergoes. Our goal here isn’t to reinvent governance from day one but to provide a template of strong communication and transparency to start with and, as the ecosystem matures, to cede more and more of those activities back to the community’s guidance through adding elements of direct democracy, corporate governance and representative systems as appropriate.

Early Stages
We are frequently asked how the Foundation will participate in the active running of the protocol and the distribution of its overall token resources during its earliest stages.

As part of the Roadmap to MainNet rollout, the Foundation is helping to test the network and stand up its initial nodes. Since there is no inflation during this period, the Foundation doesn’t gain any tokens by undertaking these activities and they are intended to be temporary.

Once the network progresses to its next phase, the Foundation will hand off the running of nodes to the decentralized community of validators. The Foundation doesn’t intend to run full MainNet validating nodes again or to participate in voting with any of the tokens under its direct or indirect control as part of the governance functions it oversees, though it may delegate some portion of its Endowment to other validators (not affiliated with any of its directors or executives) during the early phases of the network. The NEAR network will run and govern itself independently.

As part of the initial rollout, the Foundation has a number of tokens under its control or custody. One portion of those, the Endowment (which totals 10% of the initial amount), are reserved for the Foundation in order to support its long term operations. Another portion is distributed to early collaborators and backers. The last portion (which begins large but decreases in size by the day) is intended for distribution to the community via a variety of different means from drops to grants to sales and beyond over the next several years.

To allay any concerns about the Foundation’s involvement, almost all of the tokens in its possession, whether intended for its own use or for distribution, will be programmatically locked up to varying degrees. Half of the Endowment will be locked up for long term release and each of the distribution buckets will be locked in rough accordance with the intended timeline of their use. It should go without saying that the Foundation has the network’s integrity and health as its top priorities.

The Future
My father always liked to say that you should strive to be “nonessential but irreplaceable” and that’s a good roadmap for how the Foundation’s role will progress through time.

While it is an important force in standing up the network for the first time, the Foundation will transition to a position as a cheerleader and advisor for the ecosystem as it hands off more and more of the operation and governance of the network to its participants. Ultimately, the Foundation will persist as long as its Purpose remains unfilled but its path will be increasingly overseen and steered by the community at large as the project grows.

The Foundation will always be a unique entity in the NEAR ecosystem but it should be a nonessential one for that ecosystem’s continued operation and success.

I look forward to a day when it is no longer necessary for the world at all.

Next Steps
With MainNet live, we have moved into a different phase of NEAR’s development. You will hear more from us as the early distribution activities are rolled out and the steady state system governance design is released. We hope to always be a helpful source of information about the NEAR network in all its phases (through both calm and difficult times) and to provide ways for participants to onboard to the project and get acquainted with each other along the way.

You can be a part of this story as well. 

The NEAR Foundation represents the manifested voice of all the developers and entrepreneurs who struggle to bring innovation to the rest of the world and we need your help because there is a long way to go. Whether you’re a gifted engineer, a hustling marketer, a visionary product person, a diligent operator, a passionate lawyer or just a community enthusiast — we have a spot for you somewhere.

Find your place among the teams that drive this forward at https://pages.near.org/careers or get involved directly as a Contributor at https://pages.near.org/community. If you are a developer, you can jump into the code at https://docs.near.org and if you are already a founder, you can find support for your journey from the Open Web Collective, a platform-agnostic founder community, at https://openwebcollective.com. 
Open Call for NEAR Accelerator Service Partners
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 5, 2023
The NEAR blockchain is an open-source, decentralized blockchain protocol that is designed to be scalable, developer-friendly, and able to support a wide range of decentralized applications (dApps) and smart contracts. NEAR has built the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), a Web3 stack to integrate experiences from across the Open Web and streamline the discovery and onboarding experience for users and developers alike.

NEAR Foundation has committed over $90M in capital to ecosystem growth, and the NEAR ecosystem grew from 0 to over 1,000 teams. One of the central lessons learned during this time is that founding teams need a host of contributors — beyond investment — in order to be successful. 

Partner with NEAR Foundation for Accelerator program
NEAR Foundation recently announced Updates to Decentralized Funding, Development DAO, and the Accelerator, and released an Open Call for NEAR Accelerator Partners. To further assist founders and startups, the NEAR Foundation is looking to partner with existing products, experts, and services to support teams participating in NEAR Accelerator programs in a variety of different functions:

Legal Partner RFP — Comprehensive legal and regulatory guidance for cryptocurrency, web3, and general business matters such as intellectual property, taxation, governance, regulatory rulings, outsourcing, cross-border transactions, and consumer/data protection. Expertise in Anti-Money Laundering/Know Your Customer (AML/KYC) compliance and overall startup support from formation to governance.
Marketing Partner RFP — Full-service marketing support for product engagement and go-to-market strategy execution, including digital marketing, branding, creative concept development, campaign planning, and design.
Finance Partner RFP — Comprehensive financial services tailored to web3 startups, including accounting, bookkeeping, tax services, and general financial advisory.
Talent / Recruiting Partner RFP — Specialized recruiting and talent acquisition services to help accelerator teams attract top-tier talent essential for building successful and sustainable businesses.
Technical Partner RFP — Robust infrastructure and development tools designed to expedite technical and product development, encompassing web3 services, audit services, traditional cloud services as well as UX/UI services.
Product Partner RFP — Expert guidance in product-market fit, go-to-market strategy, product vision and roadmap development, and tokenomics evaluation for web3 startups.
PR / Comm Partner RFP — Strategic public relations and communications services aimed at boosting product engagement and supporting go-to-market strategies, covering PR campaigns, social media, communications, and community outreach.
NEAR Foundation will offer service credits to teams participating in the accelerator program to use partner services to help them accomplish their vision. The ultimate goal is for founding teams to create great products and run successful fundraising campaigns, while also increasing revenue and market share for other stakeholders interacting with the product such as our service partners. NEAR Foundation commits to providing access to NEAR ecosystem teams for the selected service partner(s) as “preferred partners.” This will mean that the selected partner(s) are vetted and approved by the NEAR Foundation, and should lead to an increase in the number of projects that are interested in using the partner(s)’ product / services. 

Important dates for NEAR accelerator service partners
We will be assessing proposals based on the requirements outlined in each of the function-specific service partner open calls. Service partners are expected to submit their proposals by Apr 23, 2023. The NEAR Foundation review team will be conducting interviews with selected candidates between May 13-17. The review team will shortlist the service partners between May 20-23 and will communicate further with the selected parties. Final approval will be provided by the NEAR Foundation Counsel. 
Cosmose and NEAR Foundation Set To Revolutionize Retail with Web3 and AI
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 24, 2023
The Artificial Intelligence (AI) wave is touching just about every corner of commerce and culture, and retail is no exception. Cosmose AI, one of the leaders in AI and retail, has received a strategic investment from NEAR Foundation to create Web3, mobile, and retail experiences that enhance personalization without sacrificing privacy or security.

“NEAR is the most secure, scalable, and sustainable blockchain protocol,” says Miron Mironiuk, founder and CEO of Cosmose. “As such, we’re grateful for the ongoing support from NEAR Foundation and are excited about what’s to come.”

By utilizing the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (BOS) and AI-powered retail personalization, Cosmose gives users access to their data and personalized recommendations. This move toward a decentralized and user-focused Web3 future emphasizes how AI and blockchain have the power to completely alter current business structures in the retail sector.

With the help of NEAR’s technology and ecosystem, Cosmose can now change conventional retail business models and produce hyper-personalized shopping experiences that increase loyalty and happiness. These experiences will include its flagship mobile application KaiKai and a suite of AI-powered personalization tools.

Personalizing retail with Web3 experiences
Shopper and user personalization is nothing new in retail, but Cosmose is blazing a new trail with the power of its proprietary AI engine. Cosmose’s AI gathers and analyzes user data to produce suggestions and experiences that are uniquely tailored to each user. 

By building on NEAR, Cosmose is able to help retailers develop stronger customer interactions while also addressing privacy and data security issues endemic to Web2 retail data collection. Cosmose and its KaiKai mobile app are trusted by top brands including LVMH, Richemont, L’Oréal, and Estée Lauder.

“Having built on NEAR in 2022 and while working with NEAR Foundation we discovered that our visions for the Web3-driven future are aligned,” Mironiuk continues.

Through the partnership, Cosmose will be able to offer individualized experiences to its worldwide clientele through a number of channels, including online, in-store, and mobile. 

“This investment from NEAR Foundation is a testament to Cosmose AI’s strength and potential to revolutionize e-commerce and the retail industry,” said George Raymond Zage III, founder and CEO of Tiga Investments and a Cosmose board member. “We’re excited to see Cosmose AI’s continued growth and success.”

KaiKai: Introducing “Shoppertainment” on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System
KaiKai, Cosmose AI’s flagship product, shopping, retail, and gamification to create a new category altogether: Shoppertainment. The mobile shopping experience is constructed in a very unique way, using the BOS as a backbone to make brand discovery and engagement more fun and rewarding.

Some of KaiKai’s features that brands are already using include:

Exclusive product drops available for a limited time
Augmented Reality (AR) technology that brings products to life
Livestreams featuring celebrities and influencers
Ads displayed on users’ lock screens without interruptions
Geolocation features displaying available products in the user’s area
Rewards for collecting products and writing reviews
A secure Near wallet accessible via the KaiKai app
KaiKai also features a native cryptocurrency called Kai-Ching, which users earn and spend like any other retail rewards program. The difference is that Cosmose’s AI provides more personalized recommendations and rewards suggestions, with customers easily transacting on the NEAR blockchain with a native KaiKai crypto wallet.

“We’re excited to support Cosmose as it continues to scale rapidly and create new ways for retailers to offer customers the best offline and online shopping experiences,” noted Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “Cosmose has already been building on NEAR testnet, and with this additional support it will have many more opportunities to grow and expand its offerings with Web3 in a sustainable, transparent, and infinitely scalable way.” 

Flament added: “Cosmose’s excellent AI innovation will help to intensify its global marketplace lead, and with superior AI-driven personalization, its user base will undoubtedly continue to grow as new and existing customers are seamlessly transitioned into the world of Web3 and all the exciting opportunities it brings.”

It’s no secret that AI is turning industries, communities, and business models on their heads – and that’s not a bad thing. NEAR Foundation’s commitment to developing Cosmose’s retail technology, including KaiKai, signals that consumers will now be even more empowered with more personal recommendations, a “shoppertaining” experience, and the sound of “Kai-Ching” as they earn crypto rewards powered by NEAR and BOS.

“Together we’ll build a future where one billion users benefit from the ecosystem they’re part of, with complete control of their data and superior AI-driven personalization,” said Mironiuk.
NEAR Now Integrated into Ledger Live For More Security and Ownership
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 30, 2023
Wallet security can be intimidating, especially for newcomers. But it just got a whole lot easier for NEAR users. NEAR Foundation is excited to announce full integration with Ledger Live, making it easier than ever for NEAR holders to secure their assets using Ledger’s devices and software. 

Ledger Live is Ledger’s all-in-one digital asset management app enabling its users to manage and stake an ever-growing range of digital assets from the security and self-custody of their hardware wallets. Through its single, secure app, anyone from newcomers to crypto natives can follow the market,manage their DeFi portfolio, and explore Web3 with complete control and freedom. 

“We are thrilled to help more people enjoy the benefits of self-custody, no matter what their level of crypto experience,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This new partnership will bring even easier and more secure access to cryptocurrency worldwide, as we remain committed to serving as the de facto entry point to Web3 – simplifying the onboarding experience for users even if they have never used crypto, tokens, keys, or wallets.”

Carl Anderson, VP B2C Engineering at Ledger, adds: “I’m pleased to see a crypto player like NEAR join the Ledger ecosystem. This integration highlights what Ledger Live really is: an all-in-one asset management app where users can manage their digital assets, visualize their NFTs, and explore an ever-growing range of Web3 apps from the security of their hardware wallets.”

How Ledger Live works
To use Ledger Live, users must have a Ledger hardware wallet and then download the desktop and/or mobile app. This all-in-one digital asset management app allows users to track, buy, sell and swap an ever-growing range of tokens, visualize NFTs, earn rewards, manage NFT collections, and securely stake their digital assets with Ledger by Figment validator while enjoying the benefits of self-custody. 

Users can delegate their NEAR tokens to the Ledger by Figment validator, contributing to the protocol’s security while benefiting from coverage against slashing risks, low commission fees, and earning rewards from that contribution. 

Visit the Ledger Live webpage for more details on using the app and staking with the Ledger by Figment validator. 

DISCLOSURE NOTICE: Investment in cryptocurrency and other digital assets is highly speculative and comes with significant risks. The value of these assets can be highly volatile and may fluctuate significantly in a short period of time. It is important to conduct thorough research and consult with a financial advisor before making any investment decisions. Additionally, it is important to understand the regulatory environment and potential legal implications of investing in cryptocurrency. This disclosure is not a recommendation to buy or sell any particular asset and is for informational purposes only.
Case Study: NEAR Foundation’s Laura Cunningham on the NEAR Horizon Startup Accelerator
CASE STUDIES
July 26, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In these Case Study videos, NEAR Foundation showcases some of these projects. 

In the latest NEAR Foundation Case Study video, viewers hear from Laura Cunningham, Team Lead at NEAR Horizon and General Manager at NEAR Foundation. NEAR Horizon is a Web3 accelerator program revolutionizing how founders and builders receive support in the open web. Laura takes viewers on a deep dive into Horizon’s startup accelerator marketplace, which the Horizon team built on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). 

“The BOS was our platform of choice for building NEAR Horizon because it makes Horizon much more accessible to founders and projects that are already in the ecosystem. And then ones coming in new, you can be building on another chain as long as you have some component of your stack on NEAR then you can apply and be part of NEAR Horizon, ” she adds. “It is also incredibly composable, so we were able to fork different attributes that were already available on BOS and make use of them in our front end, so it made it a lot quicker to actually develop.”
Berry Club Part II: How Does The Berry Club Yield Farming App Work?
CASE STUDIES
February 17, 2021
Let’s Put It To The Test
For an introduction to Yield Farming on NEAR, see Part 1, Berry Club: A Fun, Creative Example of a DeFi Yield Farming App on NEAR Protocol

Berry Club Background
Berry Club is one of the oldest and certainly most engaging smart contracts on the NEAR blockchain. Berry Club has actually been around since before the NEAR mainnet was launched. Berry Club and sister contracts Berry Farm and Banana Swap are a suite of DeFi yield farming smart contracts. They were developed partly for community participation and creativity, but also to prove the viability of DeFi apps on NEAR.

Let’s start the tour with some details on each of the smart contracts related to Berry Club.

Artwork From Avocados
Berry Club is a yield farming application that allows users to purchase Avocados (tokens) with NEAR at fixed rates. These Avocados can then be “planted” on a public board of colored pixels. In aggregate, these pixels create an ever-changing shared piece of art.

It’s a crazy mix between a chat room and graffiti wall. Here are a few snapshots.

Some Examples of User-Created Pixel Art Using Avocados on Berry Club
 Farming Avocados, Bananas, and Cucumbers
But there’s an even more interesting aspect to these pixels. Each pixel a user owns will pay a yield denominated either in Bananas or Avocados, based on the user’s preference (you will begin to notice the farming theme if you aren’t already familiar with Berry Club). This allows for beautiful game theory driven community-created artwork to be consistently changed and collaborated on. 

Let’s add Cucumbers to the farm. Berry Farm allows these hard-working farmers (or users) to swap Bananas for Cucumbers at a 1:1 ratio. But why would they want a Cucumber when they have already purchased Avocados and earned Bananas? 

Cucumbers pay a yield denominated in NEAR that is proportional to each farmer’s share of all Cucumbers. That is to say: if there are 100 Cucumbers total, and you own 1 Cucumber, then you will receive 1% of each of the NEAR reward distributions. These distributions are paid whenever any user draws on the pixel board (at most once per minute). The NEAR rewards distribution method highlights one of the coolest features about NEAR and Berry Farm: a portion of the NEAR distributions are actually taken from the gas that is used to interact with the smart contract, while the rest is distributed from Avocado purchases. This Contract Reward provides an incentive to build quality smart contracts on NEAR, and can help smart contracts become more self-sustaining. 

This nicely highlights one of NEAR’s distinctive features: the creator of each smart contract can automatically receive a portion of rewards whenever the contract is used.

Banana Swap
Last but not least in the Berry Club ecosystem, there is Banana Swap: an automated market maker that services the Banana economy, allowing users to buy and sell Bananas directly for NEAR. This is a tiny version of Uniswap that was one of the first proofs of working AMM contracts on NEAR. Now that we have introduced all of the building blocks of Berry Club, let’s do some farming.

Trying Out Berry Club
DeFi is all about experimentation, so no blog post about DeFi would be complete without a little bit of first-hand user data. 

Below is an example of what a new Berry Club farmer will experience starting out. For ease of understanding, it is narrated in the first person:

25 Avocados are given to each new user, so that’s where I started the experiment. After those were received, used 5 NEAR to purchase 1500 Avocados at a rate of 300 Avocados per NEAR (an advantaged rate compared to the 250 Avocados per NEAR for smaller NEAR amounts). I planted the Avocados with care on the Berry Club drawing board in batches of 150-250 at a time. The UI makes note that you should not destroy the lovely artwork, and that if you would merely like to farm Bananas, that you should set the opacity lower in order to preserve the underlying creations. So that is mostly what I did, occasionally adding darker pixels when I felt that it would add to the artwork. Eventually, after some experimentation, I find that actually contributing original artwork to the board, rather than merely yield farming the clear pixels, was the optimal strategy.

My bountiful Avocado fields would yield me a harvest of 250 bananas per day. Fantastic! But not so fast. Bananas are only received for the spaces on the board that you currently own, so the 250 banana per day yield was quickly reduced as others drew pixels on top of mine. And herein lies the beauty of the design of Berry Club: each user can optimize their own strategy based on what they observe happening on the board in real-time. 

A Good Harvest
When all was said and done and I had harvested my crops, the initial 5 NEAR that I had converted into 1500 Avocados yielded me 109.9 Bananas total – 75.9 of which were swapped back into 10 NEAR on Banana Swap, and the other 34 being converted into Cucumbers on Berry Farm. 

This was good enough for a 0.022% share of all Cucumbers and generated a reward in NEAR.The NEAR denominated price of Bananas on Banana Swap varied (as it should with a constant product automated market maker) on each of the swaps. In this way, the combination of Berry Farm and Banana Swap give the user the choice between a high time preference and a low time preference. Users can simply farm Bananas and sell them directly for NEAR, or swap their Bananas for Cucumbers and collect NEAR passively. The entire process took two days (it could have been shorter, if I had been more active in drawing), which gave a point estimate of the yield earned of a mind-melting 18,250% per year. 

I attempted to replicate these results a second time with another 5 NEAR, and I got a point estimate of the annual yield earned of 6,000% amidst a falling Banana market. As I said earlier: may the best artist (and farmer) win! I could have chosen a completely Cucumber-centric model for testing, but deemed that the constant creation of more Cucumbers constitutes a dynamic system that would be too complex to analyze for such a blog post. 

Testing Banana Swap
Seeing that there was a decentralized exchange, of course I had to go see if I could break it. Similar to Uniswap, Banana Swap uses a bonding curve that generates the relative token price based on the amount of NEAR and Bananas in the liquidity pool (less a fee, of course). In its current implementation, Banana Swap does not allow users to add more liquidity themselves, but rather charges a 10% fee on swaps and automatically adds those balances to the liquidity pool. In this way, liquidity on Banana Swap is self-sustaining, but also limited to natural growth. In it’s beta implementation, Banana Swap is technically vulnerable to an overflow exploit. However, thanks to the Rust programming language that NEAR supports, the overflow error cannot be exploited.

At this point it’s important to note that Berry Club is a proof of concept that is meant to highlight the ease of use of the NEAR blockchain as well as some of the newest protocol standards. One of those standards is NEP-122, the allowance-free vault-based token standard. Another example is the use of Restricted Access Keys, which allow for the end user experience to be much smoother as well as more secure. Restricted Access Keys can be restricted to specific NEAR allowances and method names (for example: the Restricted Access Keys for Berry Club only allow for the drawing method to be called, and not to make deposits from your account). 

Berry Club is a fun and engaging way to participate in a live dApp on the NEAR mainnet. That is to say: you should only participate in Berry Club, Berry Farm, and Banana Swap with a degree of curiosity and as many NEAR as you can afford to lose. With that in mind, I hope you’ll try it out and see if the results of your yield farming strategy can beat my results!

Yield Farming Experimental Results
First Round:

SPENT: 5 NEAR for 1500 Avocados

30 Banana -> 30 Cucumber

1 NEAR @ 15.7 Banana = 15.7 Banana

1 NEAR @ 17.3 Banana = 17.3 Banana

4 NEAR @ 3.8 Banana = 15.2 Banana

2 NEAR @ 6.1 Banana = 12.2 Banana

1 NEAR @ 6.9 Banana = 6.9 Banana

1 NEAR @ 8.6 Banana = 8.6 Banana

Total: 75.9 Banana for 10 NEAR, 34 cucumbers (0.022% share) = 109.9 Banana total in 2 days

Next round:

Spent: 5 NEAR for 1500 Avocados

17 Banana -> 17 Cucumber = 17 Banana

2 NEAR @ 12.935 Banana = 25.87 Banana

1 NEAR @ 13.2 Banana = 13.2 Banana

1 NEAR @ 15.9 Banana = 15.9 Banana 

1 NEAR @ 17.9 Banana = 17.9 Banana

1 NEAR @ 19.5 Banana = 19.5 Banana 

1 NEAR @ 18.9 Banana = 18.9 Banana

TOTAL: 111.27 Banana for 7 NEAR, 17 cucumbers

GRAND TOTAL:

187.17 Banana/17 NEAR (11 Banana/NEAR average price) + 51 Cucumbers (0.032% share), 0.13 NEAR yield from Cucumbers = 71.3% 

NEAR-denominated return in 4 days = about 6,000% APY
You can view some time-lapse summaries of shared Berry Club artwork on Youtube https://youtu.be/PYF6RWd7ZgI

References:

https://pages.near.org/blog/2020-near-in-review-ecosystem-tour/ 

https://pages.near.org/blog/near-protocol-economics/

Get started on Berry Club today!


Stake Wars III is Halfway to the Finish Line: What Does This Mean for NEAR’s Sharding?
DEVELOPERS
August 19, 2022
The incredible Stake Wars III journey is still unfolding, but now is a good time to celebrate some important milestones. Let’s look at a few quick stats and updates, as the organizers move forward in this effort to prepare NEAR’s sharding to move from Phase 0 to 1.
Before we do that, there’s now a leaderboard where you can see the performance of the participants. As you can see, everyone in the top 25 has a 90% or above success rate in getting their chunks online. Great job!

During the program, shardnet, the testing network set up specifically for Stake Wars, frequently had more than 1,500 active nodes participating and 400 validators (chunk + block producers) competing in 11 successful challenges in the shardnet while a few more lined up. The Stake Wars organizers will continue to operate Stake Wars exclusively in shardnet until the program ends on September 9th. 

Stake Wars will not be moved to testnet as previously announced. Testnet is used as a final staging environment, and is part of the regular release cycle. Separating that cycle from Stake Wars will allow the team to focus on the community and not on the release requirements. 

Major credit for Stake Wars’ success goes to the dedicated NEAR community and partners, without whom Stake Wars wouldn’t have been possible. Their thoughtful and continuous feedback shaped the program. Last but not least, a big shout-out to the entire Pagoda team, who stands tall and has been a backbone throughout the process.

Some Wins
Since the launch of Stake Wars III four weeks ago, the community has rallied a massive amount of participation–much more than previously anticipated. The stats have been stunning as shown above, and there is a tremendous amount of activity in the dedicated Discord channels, e.g. #stake-wars. Let’s keep this momentum up throughout the second part of the program all the way through to the finish line and beyond!

The 11 published challenges (competitions) have helped shed light on the work required to become a successful validator. They also created a battleground in shardnet for testing chunk-only producer code.

One of the most important takeaways so far is that Stake Wars is teaching community members the ins-and-outs of running successful validator nodes. It is also offering them a pathway, through stake support, to securing seats as mainnet validators. 

Some Learnings
Win or lose, there’s always something to learn. In these four intense, amazing weeks, the Stake Wars organizers have faced a series of potential setbacks, but with the help of the community the team persevered, and NEAR is a stronger ecosystem for it.

The first of these challenges was the abuse of the distribution mechanism for the shardnet token. The Stake Wars organizers addressed this issue by switching over to a delegation model to protect the network. Although this created some additional friction for participants, it did have the silver lining of introducing them to the underlying staking and delegation models in mainnet.

The other issue the Stake Wars organizers faced was handling simultaneous setup and token-distribution, which warranted creating several hard forks. Fortunately, this decision essentially helped bring the network back into a functional state. While there is no expectation that these situations will be seen in mainnet, being able to “safely” learn from them during Stake Wars contributes to an optimal operational experience for program participants. Hence, running Stake Wars in a dedicated test network (shardnet) gives the team the flexibility to respond and adapt to the different situations that may be encountered throughout the duration of the program. 

What Next? – Phase 1 of Sharding
In the run-up to the launch of Phase 1 of sharding, which is scheduled for next month, the chuck-only producer feature was released to testnet on Aug 15th. This will create more opportunities to earn rewards and further secure the NEAR Ecosystem. The chunk-only producer is also a great onramp to becoming a validator for those who may not have the $NEAR or system requirements to run a validator node since chunk-only producers are solely responsible for single shards. 

The number of validators will also increase from ~100 to ~300, and the seat price to become a validator will be lowered. This is a crucial step to better facilitate scaling, improve NEAR’s decentralization, and bring the Open Web to mass adoption.
Community Update: NEAR EDU, Flux Beta Program, and GooGuild
COMMUNITY
August 4, 2020
 

Hello citizens of NEARverse! This is NiMA coming to you from a NEARby planet in the Milky Chain … 

This week marks the beginning of a series of educational workshops that will help us onboard more web 2.0 and web 3.0 developers to the NEAR ecosystem. We would love to have you join us for the first workshop this Thursday with Sherif, our head of education. These workshops will be evolving based on your feedback and suggestions into a larger initiative that could onboard millions of developers to the most developer-friendly platform for building A Better Open Web. 


 

Good news! We would like to have you join us on our official Telegram channel to talk all things NEAR with the rest of the community. We are re-opening the Telegram channel and will be hosting a series of AMAs with NEAR core team, backers and founders. First one will be this Saturday with Illia! 

Use the hashtag #NEARAMA on Twitter or Telegram so we can find your questions and answer them during the AMA. 

One last thing, don’t forget to upvote and comment on our Reddit scaling bakeoff submission 🙏✌️

 

Linking real world data to NEAR with Chainlink 🔗
We recently announced a partnership and integration with Chainlink, the leading decentralized oracle network in the Web3 space! We’re excited to see more DApps on NEAR connect to offchain data sources using Chainlink. This is particularly useful for DeFi and OpenFinance applications that require reliable price feeds. Here’s what our friends from Chainlink have to say about this integration:

 

“Chainlink integration provides NEAR with most versatile oracle network in the market, as well as the ability to connect to any off-chain API. These are key building blocks for connecting Web2 and Open Web environments, which ultimately allows our developers to build a much wider range of applications, ranging from decentralized financial products and NFTs, to asset tokenization and insurance contracts.”


You can read more about the Chainlink partnership here or dive deeper into TestNet repos and instruction on Github. 

 

Welcoming Xoogler to the NEAR Guild program 
 

We’re excited to welcome our friends from Xoogler.co to the NEAR Guild program. Xoogler is a group of Google alumni and current Googlers who have come together to help each other build and grow in the startup ecosystem. The Xoogler.co community consists of startup founders, early team members, angel investors, VCs, and mentors.

If you’re a Googler or Xoogler, make sure to get in touch with Rune, the Guild lead, to get involved in our joint activities and future ventures. Our first collaboration with Xoogler is going to be around educational workshops and an upcoming global NEAR hackathon! Beyond that, we are also excited to have experienced angel investors and builders from Xoogler grow our DApp ecosystem on NEAR. 

 

MOAR Guilds … Designer Guild and Open Shard Alliance want you!
🎨 Designer Guild is looking for designers in the NEAR community … 
The NEAR Design Guild is an independent community focused on crypto-related art and designs. As part of the Guild Program, the community is consistently contributing to the NEAR ecosystem and is looking for more like-minded artsy guild members to join their group. Get in touch with Bruce on Twitter to find out more! 

 

The Open Shards Alliance (OSA) is recruiting new validators! 
Are you interested in becoming a validator, but are unsure where to start or if you have the needed skills? The OSA can help you learn the skills necessary to become a validator on the NEAR decentralized network. Basic Linux or Windows PowerShell skills are preferred, but not required. 

Join the OSA and help build the open web with NEAR Discord –> https://discord.gg/t9Kgbvf or directly email Henry –> [email protected]

 

One last thing … We would like to thank Henry, the leader of OSA for all his relentless support and welcome him to the NEAR collective in a more formal role and long term engagement with the NEAR Foundation. We hope to be able to collaborate with more Guild leads and community members in the future in a similar fashion. The best way to join the team building NEAR is by becoming an active member of our community. 

 

NEAR Ecosystem updates: Flux is launching their Beta Program … 
 

The team behind Flux are hard at work preparing for the phase 1 of their launch. They’re also launching a Beta Program for developers interested in building on Flux. Here’s a short snippet from their latest newsletter, but for more Fluxy goodness go to Substack to subscribe to their future updates! 

 

“Over July, we’ve taken considerable strides toward Phase 1 of our main-net launch. Phase 1 will consist of Flux Protocol on the main-net with the introduction of DAI ( a stable coin pegged to the USD ) for trading. Phase 1 will also feature the update of our open-source app and SDK to enable developers to start preparing for testing and eventual launch on Flux. In addition to tech updates, we have many exciting programs and communities popping up on and around Flux to support our ecosystem.”

 

This week we are watching, reading, and listening to … 
 

We released Alex’s white board session with Michael from Starkware → youtu.be/JIlLAxFUcwA

StarkWare Co-founder and Chief Architect, Michael Riabzev and NEAR Co-Founder & CTO, Alex Skidanov discuss StarkEx, STARKs vs. SNARKs, and do a deep dive into Stark’s algebra.

StarkWare solves the inherent problems of blockchains – scalability and privacy. They develop a full proof stack, using STARK technology to generate and verify proofs of computational integrity. StarkWare’s cryptographic proofs are zero-knowledge, succinct, transparent and post-quantum secure.

 

Open Web Collective published their latest episode with Jesse Walden of Variant Fund (ex-A16Z) where they talk about Ownership Economy which is the backbone of Jesse’s thesis for his new fund. 

 

Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts 

 

That’s it for this update. See you in the next one! 

 

Your friends,
NiMA and the NEAR team
NEAR’s Road to Decentralization: Building Bridges
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 14, 2022
The NEAR community’s big-picture vision has always been straightforward — onboard billions of people into Web3. In this new iteration of the Internet, blockchain platforms and apps will be decentralized, open-source, transparent, and humane. This Open Web will be full of utility, encouraging maximum participation from developers and end-users. 

Web3 won’t be dependent on central authorities to access services like social media, games, Metaverse experiences, and more. Decentralization, coupled with permissionless systems (i.e, open or public smart contracts), will give people a greater sense of ownership, control, and protection over their data in alignment with the financial outcomes of decentralized apps (dapps). With this regulatory foundation—or governance, as it is referred to in crypto—humanity can evolve into a new era of borderless economic opportunity for all. 

A future built on creativity, community, and inclusivity requires a core based on interoperability between blockchains. There is no single blockchain that will own Web3. NEAR and other blockchain communities understand that the future is multi-chain, and bridges and decentralization are critical to getting there. 

Rainbow Bridge: the first step toward a multi-chain future
Enter Rainbow Bridge, one of the first fully permissionless, decentralized, and openly accessible bridges in the crypto-sphere. Almost a year after launch, Rainbow Bridge has more than a dozen projects utilizing this technical infrastructure.

In connecting NEAR and Ethereum, Rainbow Bridge is a major first step toward the multi-chain future, allowing developers to use NEAR’s fast, simple, and low-cost transaction network to move assets back and forth between the two protocols. Crucially, Rainbow Bridge gives NEAR users access to familiar projects on Ethereum.

The development of Rainbow Bridge evolved, as many blockchain projects do, out of a necessity to solve an immediate engineering problem: how does a project on a separate blockchain migrate its services to another without having to rebuild the entire product from scratch. Thanks to NEAR’s Rainbow Bridge, any token or Dapp that uses Ethereum’s Virtual Machine can run on NEAR. With this capability in place, the NEAR ecosystem is able to integrate ERC20 with native NEAR solutions. Anyone can use NEAR as a technical backend while operating in the Ethereum ecosystem. The NEAR-ETH Rainbow Bridge is entirely permissionless and decentralized. No single entity controls it.

With Rainbow Bridge, NEAR effectively becomes a collaborative Layer 2 solution for existing applications and assets deployed on Ethereum. In addition to solving the problem of high gas fees and barriers to entry and scaling, NEAR brings about an additional value proposition: it’s incredibly easy to use and simple to get to grips with.

Rainbow Bridge advances NEAR’s larger goal of advancing Web3 to create a more open and inclusive internet and financial ecosystem. The key is to empower NEAR community members to operate in a high quality, scalable, and self-sufficient manner.

Pagoda: accelerating ideation to application for Web3
For developers looking to use Rainbow Bridge or other bridges, the NEAR community offers a number of projects, tools, and resources to get started. 

Pagoda, the first-ever Web3 startup platform, gives developers and entrepreneurs access to interactive tutorials, scalable infrastructure, and operational analytics that are Web3 native. Using Pagoda’s Developer Console, tools and resources can be found at every layer of the stack, from the base blockchain protocol all the way up to the application and marketing and distribution layers. Aurora, the builders of Rainbow Bridge, also offers a number of resources on their website to developers looking to build atop their EVM. 

With this technical foundation, NEAR has already begun its journey of creating a network of interoperable blockchains.

Other bridges and collaborative partnerships
NEAR is, at its core, an ecosystem. The technology is just one part of the equation, with the platform’s true infrastructure being its self-directed, decentralized community. Human decisions are the heartbeat of NEAR and its partnerships. 

A number of exciting projects are already showcasing the collaborative efforts happening within the vibrant NEAR ecosystem. Let’s take a look at a few of them.

Aurora
A turnkey solution for developers seeking to extend their dapps to reach additional markets, Aurora uses a number of NEAR’s core technologies, including sharding and developer gas fee remuneration. 

The solution consists of two core components. The first is the Aurora Engine, which allows for the seamless deployment of Solidity and Vyper smart contracts. The second is the Aurora Bridge. Based on NEAR’s Rainbow Bridge technology, Aurora Bridge enables the permissionless transfer of tokens and data between Ethereum and Aurora.

Allbridge
In December 2021, Allbridge announced an integration between Aurora and Terra, an open-source stablecoin network controlled by its stakeholders. The connection between the two networks brings Terra liquidity to the Aurora ecosystem.

As a modular and expanding token bridge with on-chain consensus, Allbridge provides a fast, affordable, and secure way to move liquidity between EVM, non-EVM, and L2 blockchains. Allbridge’s mission is to make the blockchain world borderless, with the ability to freely move assets across different networks. 

Octopus Network
A decentralized network natively built on NEAR Protocol, Octopus provides out-of-box security, interoperability, and on-chain governance to projects that are creating application-specific blockchains (appchains) for their open web applications.

Built around the $OCT Token, Octopus Network functions as a composable means by which applications can operate with different security parameters on NEAR. Octopus Network Relay runs a smart contract on NEAR, which provides infrastructure for a validator network that brings partners together.

Woo Network
In December 2021, NEAR Foundation and WOO Network completed a $5M token swap to create a partnership between the two projects. Think of this partnership, in which NEAR and WOO Network share tokens, as a symbolic bridge of sorts. 

For the NEAR community, WOO Network provides a liquidity ecosystem that connects traders, exchanges, institutions, and DeFi platforms with access to liquidity, trading execution, and yield-generating strategies. For Woo Network, NEAR provides a carbon-neutral, high-scalability platform built on a proof-of-stake, layer-1 blockchain.

Roadmap for connecting new networks
The future is collaborative — a web of blockchain protocols and decentralized projects working together to build Web3. While NEAR wants to be the onramp for a billion users, the community also wants to help enable all ships to rise to meet the challenge of onboarding the world to Web3. And the NEAR ecosystem has the grants funding, technical infrastructure, and community resources and tools to help make this happen. 

In October 2021, the NEAR ecosystem announced a $800M grants fund to accelerate the development of its blockchain. Of this $800M, the largest allocation — $350M from Proximity Labs — will go towards developing the protocol’s DeFi sector. A DeFi DAO will govern how these funds are spent. These grant funds will be absolutely crucial in connecting with new networks for the multi-chain Web3 future. 

On March 2, 2022, NEAR announced a new partnership with Multichain, the most popular bridging platform in the crypto space, which supports more than 1,600 tokens, hundreds of millions of dollars in daily transactions, and 540,000 users. As a bridge operator, Multichain has developed the technology for all blockchains to interoperate. With this partnership, NEAR’s user-friendly interfaces and tools are now extendable across the entire Web3 ecosystem. The partnership is a meaningful step forward towards the advancement of a global network of open Web 3 platforms.

A decentralized future begins with the right infrastructure. NEAR is committed to enabling the tools to ground this vision in reality, right now.
Introducing Endlesss: Gamifying Music Creation with NFTs
COMMUNITY
July 1, 2022
Endlesss, the creation, marketing, and community building platform built for musicians, has just launched on NEAR mainnet. As music production software with social media features, Endlesss is a virtual space for musicians, fans, and collectors alike. With the app, musicians of all skill levels can make, share, collaborate, and collect music in a social way. And perhaps most importantly, its technology reintroduces musical improvisation and collaboration into the cultural landscape.

As part of the launch, Endlesss announced a new feature called “Bands”—an NFT marketplace powered by NEAR’s NEP-171 NFT standard. Endlesss debuted the Bands NFT marketplace at NYC.NFT, attendees got the chance to make and mint tunes on Endlesss with various controllers. The team’s booth even included a MIDI-enabled Endlesss arcade game, which was a hit with the NYC.NFT crowd.

Before launching Endlesss, founder Tim Exile had several other careers. Trained as a violinist, Exile cut records for Warp Records and Planet Mu, two esteemed electronic music labels. Exile (real name Tim Shaw) also developed plugins for music software company Native Instruments, which paved the way for Endlesss. 

Exile launched Endlesss as a mobile app in 2020, then followed it up with a desktop version in 2021. Over the past year, Exile and team have been integrating Endlesss with NEAR. And now, Endlesss is officially Web3-ready. 

“NEAR offers great developer tools, a super-fast reliable network, and great Web3 onboarding through the linkdrop contract and human-readable wallet addresses,” says Exile. 

NEAR Foundation recently caught up with Tim Exile, fresh off of the NYC.NFT announcement, to talk about Endlesss’ new NFT feature. 

How collaborative jams work on Endlesss
Before diving into the Endlesss NFT marketplace, let’s first explore how the music software works. 

After downloading the Endlesss app, users see a music production interface. This will be familiar to anyone who has used mobile music production apps or software like Ableton, Fruity Loops, or Native Instruments. With Endlesss, the twist is that it optimizes sharing and collaboration. An amalgam of music production software and social media, with e-commerce functionality baked-in.  

Endless gives musicians the tools to start “Jams” (Endlesss-speak for “songs”), which Exile describes as something like musical chat groups. 

“You can share that jam with friends anywhere, and they can dive in, download the app on iOS, MacOS, or Windows, and you can jam with people live from all over the world,” Exile explains. “And as you jam together, you build an entire history of everything that happened in that jam. So it’s like music creation as storytelling because as the jam evolves, you can look back to see and listen to how the music unfolds as the jam progresses.”

“Endlesss is really the culmination of my life’s work because I really love improvising,” says Exile. “Before the music industry got going 150 years ago, music was an activity we came together to do. It was something that cemented our social bonds, gave us that kind of ritual resonance that allowed us to transmit, propagate, and mutate these forms through folk music. And so music was very closely attached to the myths and legends that kept us together as a society. That’s the thing that we’re building instead of selling a million copies of one song.”

But if musicians want to jam solo, they can do that as well. Musicians can create solo Jams and share them as complete pieces with other musicians and collectors on Endlesss.

“The future of media is a game, not an industry,” he adds. “And games are designed as journeys, but they’re not prescriptive. Those are really the principles upon which we built Endlesss.”

Under the hood of Endlesss’s NFT marketplace 
To integrate with NEAR, Endless first had to build an in-browser user experience. Exile reckons that 50% of the team’s work went into optimizing the front and back ends to deliver this seamless in-browser feature. 

“We needed to develop a web audio player and API endpoints,” says Exile. “Obviously, we needed to do a really good job of designing the front end to make it look and feel responsive and slick in the browser, on desktop and mobile. But the real magic, the real secret sauce is how we then take assets that have been created and stored on Web2 servers and turn them into Web3 immutable assets.” 

From a technical standpoint, musicians can share a Jam with anyone on the internet with a browser link. After clicking on the URL, users can see the jam in their browser, complete with the entire history of the Jam’s Riffs. And if the Jam unfolds in real time, Endlesss users see others adding Riffs as it all happens. Collectors can then click on any Riff that they’re listening to and trigger an NFT minting process. 

The minting process begins with the bundling of all associated media assets into a fully-executable mini-DAW which loads in an iframe. This includes web audio code, web visualizer code, all metadata, all audio stems, and an image. 

“That’s shipped off to Arweave where it’s stored on the permaweb,” Exile explains. “We get the hash back from Arweave, then mint the NFT using the NEAR NFT standard.”

If users connect their NEAR Wallet to Endlesss, a single click executes the NFT mint and purchase. Users simply hit “Collect” and then approve the transaction. 

“We had to do a bit of code dancing on our back end,” Exile says. “So, we actually have a contract that mints a token on our behalf, then transfers the token to users.”

On the creator side, the royalty split is automatic, thanks to NEAR’s NFT standard. This was a major factor in Endlesss’ decision to build on NEAR.

“One of the real strengths of the NEAR NFT standard is that it supports collaborative splits,” he adds. “It’s baked into the smart contract, which is not the case with ERC-71 because any collaborative splits are held at the marketplace level. So, you can take that asset and list it on another marketplace and those collaborative splits won’t be on it.” 

“Endlesss is deeply predicated on collaboration, so collaborative splits executed properly was very, very important for us.”

Public launch and upcoming features
The soft launch of Endlesss’ NFT marketplace has been live on NEAR mainnet for only a few weeks. So, it’s still a work-in-progress. But if the warm reception at NYC.NFT was any indication, the Web3 community already loves it. 

Not only does Endlesss fuse the Web2 and Web3 worlds, but it can also integrate with hardware. Few Web3 apps can integrate with hardware like MIDI keyboards and controllers for the truly tactile user experience Endlesss offers.

“Before we shipped Bands, on Endless you could create jams solo or with other people around the world, you could jam in real time, you could jam asynchronously,” Exile explains. “And every jam has a full history of everything that was created in that jam. And what we did when we were building on NEAR was to basically build an NFT marketplace where all the Riffs in that Jam could be minted as an NFT.”

“We seeded it out to 30 people just really to understand what the behavior is, what the demand is, and what works,” says Exile. “And we’re already learning a huge amount about the dynamics, the curiosity, and the patterns of behavior of collection.”


In this closed Beta phase, the plan is to tweak Bands’ features to optimize the market dynamics of supply and demand. Endlesss will also give creators more tools to select just some of the Riffs instead of making every one fully available by default. 

Exile says the team will add more curation features to the Bands NFT marketplace. The team is already at work on a feature that would make NFTs remixable. In other words, someone could remix a NFT Rifff they collected, then mint their remix as a new NFT. 

“We’ve got some features that we already know we’re going to build into Bands to help control the supply,” he says. “That basically means that if you want to be around to collect the best Riffs (from Jams), you really have to be there while they’re happening because we’re probably going to put this ‘timeout’ feature where they’re only mintable for the first few hours, for example.”

“We’ll probably do an official public launch of Bands around September, I imagine with a whole bunch of other creator features.”


Why NEARCON is the Must-See Global Web3 Event of 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 1, 2023
Just less than a week until Lisbon rumbles as the epicenter of the NEAR ecosystem. Step into the open web at NEARCON ‘23 across three different stunning venues, with the Convento Do Beato being the main hub for things like  founder and builder talks. Rua Pereira will pop off with creative and community action, and hardcore dev building will be going down at the Hacker HQ.

Don’t miss what’s next in NEAR’s vision for an open web that’s scalable, user-friendly, and secure. NEAR has grown to over 30 million active accounts and over 1,000 projects, and NEARCON ‘23 will showcase all these ecosystem successes, along with a slate of brand new product and ecosystem announcements.

Here’s exactly why you’ll want to be in Lisbon starting on November 7th.

A track for everyone at NEARCON ‘23
This year’s edition promises to be even more iconic then the last, with diverse tracks for any open web enthusiast, along with a melting pot of cultural and social activities to spice up the nights — Portuguese style.

No matter who you are, one of these tracks is likely tailor made for your interests:

Developers: Sharpen your skills in open web technology with hands-on workshops and coding sessions. This is your chance to get a first-hand look at the newest innovations in the blockchain space.
Entrepreneurs: Listen to industry leaders as they offer game-changing insights, actionable strategies, and practical advice you need to transform your vision into the next unicorn startup.
Creatives: Explore how blockchain technology can revolutionize art, marketing, and beyond. You’ll walk away with new perspectives on how to infuse blockchain into your creative process.
Regulators: Blockchain regulations can seem like a daunting maze of laws and policies. Get the low-down on best practices, legal frameworks, and the future of blockchain regulation from experts in the field.
Hackathons, bounty rewards, and AI at the bleeding edge
If you’re a developer, fling yourself into an intense 48-hour NEARCON hackathon where you’ll get the chance to build next-level apps for NEAR and potentially see your project in the spotlight. Developers can also earn NCON tokens through bounties, redeemable for perks from food to merch. Also, don’t miss the much anticipated “AI is NEAR” track led by AI and machine learning OGs Illia Polosukhin and Alex Skidanov, exploring where AI meets the Open Web.

So whether you’re an AI head who craves the latest insights from the baddest machine learning experts or a curious founder who delights in brainstorming over a local merlot at one of the many super cool side events, NEARCON ‘23 is sure to be memorable and valuable.

With tracks tailored to suit every interest, ecosystem milestones to celebrate, and a hackathon that brings the brightest minds together, NEARCON ‘23 is the can’t miss event of the year for anyone curious, passionate (or both) about what’s next for the  open web.

So what are you waiting for? Sign up for NEARCON ’23 now to secure your spot!
And let’s not forget some special treatment is in store for Ukrainians, students in Spain and Portugal, and hackathon registrants. All of the above can head over to those pages and register for a totally free NEARCON ‘23 pass!
2020 NEAR In Review & Ecosystem Tour
COMMUNITY
December 23, 2020
Most of us won’t be sorry to say goodbye to 2020, but this year was a big one for NEAR. From Ready Layer One to announcing the NEAR Foundation, Hacking the Rainbow to launching the NEAR Mainnet, there are many milestones to be proud of. So, to every developer, staker, validator, builder, maker, and contributor, thank you for being a part of this community and building the Open Web with us.

Why not spend some holiday downtime trying out cool things around the NEARverse? We’ll get you started. If you’re new to the ecosystem or want a refresher, try the Beginner’s Guide deep dive. Or choose your own adventure below: Learn for watching and reading, Build for developer onboarding, Try to play around with live projects, Join for Community and Guild resources, and Give to share the love. 

Learn 👩‍💻 
Amazing projects are already taking advantage of NEAR’s building experience. Check out the use cases page for all the details on how Flux Protocol, Mintbase, and Zed.Run are leveraging NEAR’s speed and low-cost development to grow their user communities in ways that weren’t possible before.

Electric Capital released the 2020 edition of their Developer Report this month and features lots of excellent NEAR growth stats. Some highlights: NEAR grew our developer community by 3x, is one of the top 10 gainers of devs, and has about the same number of developers as Ethereum did at this point in its growth timeline! 

The NEAR Whiteboard Series features a technical leader from another protocol in casual conversation with NEAR engineers—comparing approaches, unpacking concepts, and discussing challenges. Recent episodes feature Alexey Akhunov on TurboGeth and Adrian Manning from Sigma Prime. 

Build 🛠️ 
To dive in and start tinkering with some example apps, head to NEAR.dev to dive in. For a high-level overview of how applications are put together on NEAR and a suggested path you can use to learn how to build your own, head to the Building Applications page.

For more in-depth intro content and tutorials to guide you on your way, check out our educational NEAR 101 video and NEAR 102 for ETH developers. You’ll find lots of other onboarding resources on our YouTube if you fall down the rabbit hole!

Join us on Discord to reach out, ask questions, get the latest news, and find fellow builders to exchange ideas and collaborate. We’re here to help.

Try 🤳
There are tons of cool applications live on NEAR today! The OG NEAR app, Berry Club, is a yield farming app that lets you draw with pixels and earn 🥑 tokens. Start eating and climb that leaderboard. (Fun fact: the first version was built in December 2018, making Berry Club even older than the NEAR TestNet! Happy 2nd Birthday, Berry!)

Paras, now live on MainNet, is an NFT digital art card marketplace powered by NEAR and IPFS. Collectors can discover and collect art cards built with tech that prevents forgery and provides provable ownership. Artists create digital art cards and sell them on the marketplace in just a few clicks; active artists on the platform have earned thousands of NEAR in just the first two weeks!

Is Santa bringing you a new phone this year? Glyde provides buyers and sellers of used mobile phones a higher level of transparency, security, and trust – and uses NEAR smart contracts to minimize fraud.

Join 🤝
A clear 2020 highlight for NEAR has been the growth of our community. Our vibrant network of contributors building with and on NEAR has evolved into a resilient, decentralized organization in their own right. 

Our December Town Hall focused on NEAR Guilds. A guild is a community with a unique identity based on a shared purpose and goals. We have regional guilds, guilds focused around common knowledge and skills, domain-specific guilds focused on particular use cases, and more. The Town Hall featured 5 emerging Guild leaders from around the world, but there are lots more Guilds to explore on NEARGuilds.com. 

Chloe gave a tour of Createbase, a guild supporting experimental art projects that contribute to the NFT ecosystem on NEAR in collaboration with Mintbase. Learn more about their funding support, education resources, and Advent Calendar on their Wiki. 
Henry AKA Blaze shared Open Shard Alliance, a network of professional validators who launched GuildNet, the first decentralized, sharded implementation of NEAR. OSA are the masterminds behind near-staking.com and Narwallets.
Jitendra presented NEAR India, a regional guild focused on growing the NEAR India community through awareness, education (including materials in regional languages from across India), and empowering local developer communities. Talk to them!
Ash introduced the NEAR Marketing Guild, a global group of advocates dedicated to spreading the word about NEAR initiatives and making shareable developer content. 
Michael AKA Ozymandius presented 4NTS, an OG guild dedicated to expanding the NEAR ecosystem and advancing the Open Web vision. 4NTS are also the maker-maintainers of the self-organized NEAR Guilds home base!
Give 🎁
To send us all off in the spirit of the season, the NEAR Foundation and a few friendly collaborators in the ecosystem decided to team up and donate to Coin Center today. Regulatory advocacy is more important than ever in the blockchain space and it’s important to support the people doing the hard work on our collective behalf. The NEAR Foundation has donated $25,000. Thanks to the projects who joined us: Celo Foundation, Solana Foundation, Interchain Foundation, and The Graph Foundation. 

If you hold NEAR and want to spread cheer, try out NearNames. It’s a fun holiday app that lets you gift NEAR accounts in an easy flow for crypto natives and newbies alike. Bring them aboard with a personalized account name (24K+ accounts are live on NEAR so far!) and then send them this post to help them get started in the ecosystem.

The Future is NEAR! ✨
Early 2021 will bring lots of exciting initiatives, so don’t forget to follow along on Twitter and our governance Forum to hear the latest. We will announce the launch of the NEAR Grants Program, debut improvements to the NEAR community governance experience, and share exciting updates about the Rainbow Bridge. And that’s just in January.

Happy holidays and see you next year!

Don’t forget to join us on Twitter and subscribe to our newsletter.
NEAR Boosts Web3 Gaming with New South Korea Regional Hub Launch
COMMUNITY
November 1, 2022
South Korea will soon have its own NEAR Regional Hub  dedicated to Web3  innovation, business development, education, and talent throughout the country. The hub will be led by entrepreneurs Scott Lee and Ben Kang – both influential figures within South Korea’s growing blockchain community. Details of the plan include tapping into the country’s active gaming community, bringing more amazing projects and creators to the NEAR ecosystem. 

NEAR has entered the game
This exciting development will bring all things NEAR to South Korea’s vibrant Web2 and Web3 scene. Most notably, game developers building on NEAR will be exposed to the country’s massive gaming markets, ranked fourth in the world, and earn commissions on the NEAR-based dapps they build. 

South Korea’s gaming industry leaders feature WEMADE’s P2E project, WEMIX, NetMarble’s MarbleX, and KakaoGames’ METABORA. With gaming and crypto’s popularity in South Korea, the new hub will be integral in helping lay the foundation for Web3 gaming’s future; both locally within the country, and beyond. 

Local leadership for local communities
Together, Scott Lee and Ben Kang bring an impressive depth of knowledge and experience to the NEAR ecosystem, as well as a vast network of industry leaders from the broader Web3 space.

When Lee wasn’t busy founding a Web3 startup or advising on multiple Korean-based projects, he was the Director of Business Development of Legendaries, a subsidiary of KAKAO Entertainment. Before joining KAKAO Entertainment, he led an accelerating division and growth team from SparkLabs and FuturePlay.

Kang began his career in financial services and worked in high profile roles at Merrill Lynch and the Korea Stock Exchange. After co-founding Klaytn, Korea’s leading Layer 1, he leveraged his expertise to advise on the company’s tokenomics and corporate investments.  

The power duo hopes to attract the best quality projects and the hottest developers in South Korea to build on NEAR while helping companies transition from Web2 into Web3, particularly those within the gaming industry.

New places, new talent, new projects
To seize this opportunity to heighten awareness for NEAR in South Korea, the hub will also play a proactive role in community building through meetups, hackathons, and university relations, attracting high quality projects and growing NEAR’s presence in the region.

“NEAR has gained wide support among the exciting Web3 community for its ease of use and impressive user interface, which has helped to democratize access to building and bring a mix of exciting talent to the protocol. Moreover, there is a significant number of JavaScript developers in Korea, and they can now easily build on NEAR,” said Scott Lee. “We want to use the hub to leverage that momentum and to attract an even bigger audience of builders by giving them the funding and the tools to create an inclusive and sustainable Web3 future for Korea.”

“We will focus on enhancing the overall NEAR ecosystem and attracting Web3 projects to onboard – and  also value campus blockchain communities, which will be the fundamentals of the NEAR Protocol.” said Ben Kang. “In order to do this we will work closely with the community to raise the profile of the NEAR and to shine a spotlight on the high level of scalability and useability that the protocol can offer creators.”

South Korea has one of the most established Web3 ecosystems in Asia and one of the most active cryptocurrency economies in the world. This, along with a combination of highly creative local talent and a growing desire for developers to build sustainably and without limits, makes this country an ideal addition to the NEAR Regional Hubs initiative. 

“We are thrilled to be growing the blockchain dev community in Korea as the talent there is world class and they have the potential to create some fantastic Web3 projects on NEAR,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “With a stellar leadership team at the helm of this exciting and inclusive hub, we are confident that we can deliver the necessary tools and opportunities to attract more of the best and brightest stars from the local community. Together we can give them the training and freedom to build sustainable and exciting Web3 applications without limits.”

Building a world without limits
Internationally, the excitement continues to build around the #NEARisNOW movement,  and the potential NEAR has as the de facto blockchain of Web3.  With its ecosystem-first approach, incredible community, and innovative tech, there is no better on ramp to the future of the web. Unlike other chains, NEAR gives software developers easy access to create without limits.  


NEAR Wallet Will Remain Online Until the End of the Year
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 26, 2023
To avoid the rush of last minute transfers, and to support the inclusion of new wallets coming into the ecosystem, we are delaying the sunset of the NEAR wallet.

The NEAR wallet sunset is now targeted for December 31st, 2023.

We want to encourage users to continue to transfer their wallets using the Transfer Wizard available at wallet.near.org. Simply select “Get Started” on the banner at the top of the page displayed when you log in.

Learn more about how the Transfer Wizard works.
You can also learn more about why Pagoda is sunsetting the NEAR Wallet.
The future of the wallet.near.org landing page
Previously, we had intended to make wallet.near.org into a wallet-centric landing page as a place for ecosystem users to learn about all the amazing wallets available on the NEAR platform. However, due to resource and time constraints, we no longer believe we could provide the best experience. Instead, we are asking the community to create an information site that showcases all the NEAR wallets.

These plans are still in progress as we work with community partners. More to follow when we have more to share.

Thank you for your continued support and patience as we work hard to improve the user onboarding and transaction experience.
NEAR MainNet is now Community-Operated
COMMUNITY
September 24, 2020
As of today, the NEAR Foundation has spun down its nodes, making the NEAR Protocol MainNet fully community run. This is the most significant (though not the last!) milestone in NEAR’s multi-year journey from excited scribbles on a whiteboard to a fully decentralized and community operated network.

For context, the NEAR Protocol MainNet genesis occurred on April 22, 2020 and the network has been operated in “Proof Of Authority” mode by the NEAR Foundation, which ran its only nodes during the early stages. This can be considered the “training wheels” phase of the network because the Foundation had sufficient control to unilaterally address any challenges which might have arisen.

Over the past several months, in conjunction with the Stake Wars incentivized TestNet program, the NEAR team has onboarded and promoted additional participants to operate the validator nodes which run the network and given them the delegation they need to operate those nodes. At this point, dozens of independent node operators currently run the NEAR network.

NEAR has always been meant to be community operated, meaning that its node hardware is run by independent participants and no entity controls sufficient stake to unilaterally override decisions made on the network. That’s why, as planned, the NEAR foundation today realized the Phase I milestone of its Road to MainNet by shutting down its nodes and placing the network in the hands of the other operators. While the foundation still has the ability to delegate to support a diversity of these nodes, it no longer has control over the network. NEAR is now community operated.

Why this is Important
NEAR fills a major hole in the current blockchain ecosystem and many people have been impatient for the network to reach its final stage of MainNet launch.

The obvious problem today is the crippling fees on Ethereum which have sent a wave of refugees out into the world looking for a network that will not rewrite the economics of their businesses because of an unrelated bubble. Yes, NEAR has 10,000x lower fees than Ethereum and will scale dynamically. Yes, NEAR is the most developer-friendly way to achieve this scalability. But “faster and cheaper” is insufficient to be successful in supporting the next generation of applications.

The reason why projects like Mintbase have chosen to build on NEAR is because NEAR is the fastest way for builders to get to market and do things that they didn’t expect were possible from a blockchain. NEAR interoperates with Ethereum with the ease of a layer 2 via the trustless Rainbow Bridge while providing a flexible account model that can hide the blockchain from users until they’re ready by using Progressive Onboarding. It gives them a full stack suite of tooling and a way to keep 30% of transaction fees generated by their contracts. It easily allows sending tokens to unregistered users with “NEAR drops” and its human-readable accounts have easy multisig so DAOs are almost native.

These features don’t just solve the problems of today (cost & scaling) but allow builders to create sustainable apps and experiences that no other chain can support… experiences that real users can use.

What Comes Next
The transition to Phase I means that the network is now community operated but it is still technically restricted from allowing token transfers between participants and there are no block rewards being offered. The first task of this new set of community operators will be to exercise their governance power to vote to enable each of these things, which will transition the network into its final stage, “MainNet Phase II: Community-Governed.”

The technical details of this process are described in more detail in the Transitioning NEAR MainNet post, but basically there is a stake-weighted vote where validators indicate their choice by flagging their decision. Over time, as more delegation joins each voting validator, the “yes, proceed to Phase II” votes should increase until they reach the necessary threshold (2/3rds of total stake) to pass.

We have no idea when this vote will pass because it is entirely up to the community now. Members of the NEAR Validator Advisory Board have been vocal in discussing the details of this transition. Generally, important criteria will include ensuring that enough tokens have been distributed and are participating in the delegation process and maintaining the network’s stability. This could be days, weeks or months… and it’s partially up to you.

What we Need from You
If you are a NEAR token holder, now is the time to start participating!

This means you should start by going through the claims process (the details of which will depend on your exact method of acquiring tokens) to accept and custody your tokens.

Next, if you are comfortable doing so, you can participate in both the network security and voting by delegating your stake to a validator. This is still a relatively technical process (see the docs) but several community members are working on human-usable interfaces to help do this in a more user-friendly way.

There are several upsides to delegating:

You get to participate in the vote to transition into Phase II, which will enable transfers and block rewards when it succeeds.
Once block rewards are enabled in Phase II, you can expect to receive a portion of them (which depends on the details of the validator you delegated to).
As with anything in the blockchain space, there are risks to consider so you should do so only if you are comfortable. But, as with anything in the blockchain space, your participation actually matters. A first step is to join us at our first community Town Hall on Monday September 28.

Outro
For the first time, we can say that NEAR is officially and undeniably community operated. 

This almost feels like sending a favored son or daughter off to school for the first time — it can be a bit uncomfortable to place your trust in the hands of others. But everyone in the NEAR community has worked incredibly hard to get this far and we couldn’t be prouder of the group who are now carrying this network into the next phase.
Women in Web3 Changemakers: Erica Kang
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 3, 2023
“The space needs more women,” says Erica Kang, the CEO and founder of KryptoSeoul, a community building team focused on highlighting projects that are actively building in the space, connecting audiences in Asia and beyond. 

“I think many people find it intimidating coming into this space, but I think women can add value.” 

Kang is one of the 10 finalists of the 2023 Women in Web3 Changemakers List, an annual competition designed to champion women pushing boundaries in the space. Kang, along with nine other outstanding candidates, are showing the industry the change women are bringing about during the advent of the Open Web. 

Kang was chosen because of her tireless work in the Web3 community. On top of creating one of the most vibrant meetups in Asia under KryptoSeoul, she’s also one of the main organisers of BUIDL Asia, as well as numerous hackathons and meetups, and has been a pivotal player in helping bring together some of the brightest technical talent under one roof. But getting to this point has been anything but easy.

Watch an extended NEAR Foundation video interview with Erica Kang below.

Stepping off the ladder 
Kang graduated from Stanford with a major in international relations and policy, giving her the foundations for being able to bring people from diverse backgrounds closer together. After graduating, she joined Korea Telecom, one of the largest telco companies in Asia, working in the strategy division, but found it stifling. 

“It’s a very conservative culture,” says Kang. “The hierarchy is dramatic. Juniors don’t have an opportunity to strive for creating new things or innovations, even though they have amazing ideas. It’s hard to bring it up.” 

But a chance encounter with a friend took Kang on a different path. “A friend recommended a very unique seminar, back in 2017. It’s very rare in Seoul, Korea to kind of have that kind of a seminar, especially on crypto.” 

The opportunity to jump into an emerging new field of technology, and away from the hierarchy of corporate South Korea was too tempting.

“Since then, I’ve been in the rabbit hole ever since.” Kang brought her experience in bringing people together in a role she describes as closer to a digital “diplomat” and started organising meet ups in and around South Korea from 2017 onwards.  

Kang was well placed. South Korea has become one of the leaders in Web3 technology. The South Korean government has invested US$21 million into local services looking to utilize the metaverse, and has established a US$30 million metaverse fund to help startups expand. 

Earlier this year, South Korea’s parliament approved the country’s first standalone crypto asset legislation, which integrates 19 crypto-related bills and authorises the Financial Services Commission (FSC) to oversee crypto asset operators and custodians. 

But it hasn’t always been easy working in Web3.

Growing Pains
 “I’ve been working in the space since 2017, and I did feel a lack of female culture here. It was devastating at times. And it was frustrating too. I really had to eliminate my femininity and had to prove I could really go up there and do my thing,” says Kang. 

But the hard work, says Kang has paid off. “I think people get it now. I’ve just been building, and make a difference.” Kang is now considered one of the key pillars of the South Korean, and broader east Asian crypto community.

She has also become a sounding board for many young female entrepreneurs thinking about jumping into the Web3 space. But Kang suggests they tread with caution. 

“I think it’s really important for newbies to do your own research. Learn a lot and indulge yourself but when it comes to engaging in certain projects, and certain people investing in those people, you really have to be careful.” 

Kang stresses there are reputational challenges working on some projects, but the opportunity to innovate and come up with new solutions to old problems is unique in the Web3 space. 
John Smith joins NEAR Inc. as CISO to redefine safety in the Blockchain Ecosystem
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 29, 2021
We are thrilled to announce that John Smith has joined NEAR Inc as its Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). John will be leading NEAR Inc’s information security strategy, working closely with core development teams, partners, and the ever-expanding NEAR community.

“John has the right background, experience, and network to do the hard work of elevating trust in the blockchain community,” says Illia Polosukhin, the CEO of Near Inc.  “He comes to us with a history of solving complex technical problems at scale across challenging industries.”  

John is a seasoned cybersecurity professional—having led highly collaborative teams at iconic threat intelligence, security, and technology companies; serving clients at every scale across an array of industries.  In his previous role as the VP of Business Information and Product Security at the global ad ratings company Nielsen, he led all aspects of application and cloud security. At Nielsen, he transformed the relationship between developers and the security organization, shifting DevOps to DevSecOps. Early in his career, John also served at the US Nuclear Regulatory Committee, working on digital transformation, alongside reactor programs and human safety.  There he learned to understand and appreciate the detailed nuances of risk analysis, applied in complex high-stakes environments.

While John will be responsible for ensuring traditional security practices are maintained at NEAR, he will be particularly focused on developing and enabling scalable security practices for smart contract developers and ensuring the security of dApps when they go live.

Scalable Security 
Interest in DeFi continues to soar and NEAR is uniquely positioned to drive massive adoption of this revolutionary technology while continuing to build the foundations of Web3. 

NEAR Inc. is achieving this through dedication to developer friendliness, scalability, cross-chain interoperability, and performance. These are the features that drive adoption.

However, these features don’t guarantee that blockchain and cryptocurrency are free of issues. We’ve seen the ramifications of development mistakes and attacks on DeFi protocols and smart contracts.  

This creates another barrier to adoption—trust—and it limits the adoption of not just a single protocol, but all of Web 3.0. Ensuring the security of the NEAR protocol and elevating the practices of the entire NEAR development community are crucial to earning that trust and attracting new participants to take part in the future of finance and the web. 

We are excited that John has joined our team to help us achieve these goals. His work will help NEAR Inc. continue to build out a secure and scalable blockchain designed to onboard the world into Web3. 
Case Study: Building on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (BOS)
CASE STUDIES
July 24, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In these Case Study videos, NEAR Foundation showcases some of these projects. 

In the latest NEAR Foundation Case Study video, viewers take a deep dive into the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). We explore how the BOS, like a decentralized app store, isn’t controlled by any centralized entities. Other topics of conversation include BOS Gateways, the discoverability and composability of BOS apps and components, building on the BOS with Javascript, and integrations with Visual Studio Code and Github.


How the NEAR Foundation is Supporting Network Decentralization
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 30, 2020
Now that inflationary rewards are live, token holders are able to earn rewards from staking. Even without running a node, they can support the stability and security of NEAR by staking to validators. In just a few weeks, more than 250 million NEAR tokens have been staked, representing 25% of all NEAR in existence. We’re overwhelmed by the amount of community support and engagement that’s ignited over the past few weeks and are excited to continue helping fuel the community’s growth.

In this article we will explore the importance of distributing stake among validators, the NEAR Foundation’s efforts to help kickstart the validator community with Delegation Funding, and two new recipients of NEAR Foundation Stake.

Distributing Stake to Validators
On Proof of Stake blockchains, it is common for token holders to converge on the few staking pools run by validators that already have most of the stake as they seem the most popular. While this is normal and repays the hard work of validators, it can have an impact on the protocol reliability and governance.

On one hand, in the unlikely scenario that the top 25% of validators go offline in a PoS blockchain, 25% of the blocks will need to be re-allocated to other nodes, which translates to slower transaction confirmations, or smart contracts needing additional time to be executed, at least until these top validator nodes come back. This may become even more evident if the top 33% goes offline: at that point, the consensus would be missing, no new blocks would be produced, and no transactions or smart contracts would be processed. In the opposite situation, if the smallest validators go offline, the protocol will miss only a few blocks, which would be almost undetected by the user.

On the other hand, this convergence can influence governance: in a liquid democracy, PoS blockchains use the staking size to weight the vote from a validator: the higher the stake, the bigger the influence on the vote. This means that every staked token gives a perpetual vote right to the validator of choice, at least until funds are delegated to a different staking pool, or unstaked completely. In a scenario where a PoS protocol is voting for a controversial change, the same top 33% validators can control the vote outcome, thanks to the delegation in their staking pool. 67% of stake is required for validators to “vote yes” on a proposal, so the most powerful validators can provide enough voting power to stall the vote or keep things unchanged.

While it’s extremely unlikely that NEAR validators will decide against the interest of the community, NEAR Foundation is anyway actively involved in keeping protocol decentralization one of its top priorities, and have as many validators as possible in the top 33%.

With that, here are three new Governance- and Validator-related initiatives that the NEAR Foundation is excited to announce:

The NEAR Governance Community
Unstaking Foundation’s Tokens
NEAR Foundation Delegation Pilot Program
NEAR Governance Community
The NEAR Governance Community launched last week as a forum for the community to discuss topical NEAR protocol improvements and governance initiatives. The first two issues submitted are the Phase II Governance Review and the Block Producer Selection Algorithm. While the content of proposals may be very technical at times for most token holders to contribute to, validators are encouraged to be actively involved in the conversation to signal to the community that they are aligned with their needs. 

As a token holder selecting Validators to stake to, you can follow these conversations to get a better understanding of the commitment and direction different validators want to take the community, and elect to stake with validators that align with your beliefs regardless of the size of their staking pool.

Unstaking NEAR Foundation Tokens
With the launch of Phase One in August, the NEAR Foundation delegated 28.8 million tokens to a small number of staking pools, to kickstart the network and help validators become active while the community was claiming their own tokens.

This week, NEAR Foundation will withdraw its funds from the staking pools in the top 33% in order to help more evenly distribute stake among all validators now that more token holders from the community have started to stake. In alphabetical order, these validators are: astro-stakers.poolv1.near, bisontrails.poolv1.near, chorusone.poolv1.near, cryptium.poolv1.near, dokiacapital.poolv1.near, figment.poolv1.near, staked.poolv1.near, and zavodil.poolv1.near. 

While these validators represent an example of integrity and commitment to NEAR Protocol, this operation will reduce the gap from the lower 67% of validators, and will free up additional resources to onboard more validators to NEAR (see below).

NEAR Foundation Delegation pilot
Initially introduced in the Stake Wars is over blog post, the NEAR Foundation has been piloting a program to select new validator candidates to stake to in order to help onboard them into the NEAR community. 

Currently, the minimum stake to become a validator is above 2.2 million NEAR tokens. Below this threshold, the staking pool is not elected and would not have the option to earn token rewards from producing blocks. This is the typical chicken-and-egg problem: as a delegator, why should you give your stake to a pool that is not yet big enough to be elected and produce new blocks? Or if you are interested in being a validator, how will you raise enough stake to start producing blocks and generate rewards to make being a validator a viable endeavor?

The NEAR Foundation is helping to alleviate this cold start issue by providing a temporary delegation of between 1-4 million tokens as a form of “startup” stake to kickstart new validators’ participation in the active validator set, and help them attract delegation from their followers and the NEAR token holder community at large.

As mentioned above, eventually, the NEAR Foundation will progressively unstake these tokens from the validators, as it did with the top 33% validators in the list above, and re-allocate them to other staking pools to continue on boarding more validators to NEAR.

The details of criteria for receiving and maintaining the NEAR Foundation’s stake are outlined in this blog post about the program, but primarily comes down to:

Reviewing application information potential validators submit in this form
Asking potential validators to outline goals and KPIs they have to better the NEAR community using this template as an example.
This “startup” stake funding from the NEAR Foundation will help validators earn a seat in the active set and earn staking rewards from the network. Over time, as the minimum stake to be an active validator increases, validators will need to find ways to attract more stake from the community in order to remain in the active set. Practically speaking, if validators receive NEAR Foundation stake, but fail to deliver on their community growth and marketing initiatives, they will fall out of the active set by not attracting enough community token holder stake to maintain their position. 

Foundation Delegation Pilot Program Recipients
We’re excited to announce that the Foundation has on boarded the first two organizations in this program to receive stake: Everstake and AUDIT.one.

Why Everstake
Everstake provided a solid growth plan, together with a strong track record in writing original contents for their community of token holders. They already published a blogpost providing basic information about NEAR, and were able to grow their staking pool size above 4 million tokens, even before the NEAR Foundation provided its official support. This is a great example of driving growth from an existing community of token holders. A copy of their submitted request can be found here.

Why AUDIT.one
AUDIT.one is the validator arm of Persistence.one, one of the largest blockchain organizations in India. AUDIT.one is built on the belief that the Validators of today will be the Auditors of tomorrow with economic skin-in-the-game. They are very active on Cosmos, and recently they started to support Polkadot.

Similarly to Everstake, they have a strong track record in generating high-quality content for their followers, along with the translation of technical documentation and papers.

Overall, Audit One becomes an ideal partner to include Hindi-speaking enthusiasts in the community, and help them delegate to a local validator.

Looking Forward
A number of great potential validator candidates have applied to the Foundation Delegation Pilot Program and we will continue to review and support the community as needed to foster the growth of a vibrant decentralized validator community on NEAR.

We encourage all token holders to get involved with the community and meet validator teams who are playing an active role in the health and governance of the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR Foundation will continue to make this decision process for Foundation Delegation as transparent as possible, while encouraging validators who receive this temporary support to do their best to support the growth of the community as a whole.

In addition to technical prowess and uptime, validators who are providing educational content, exceptional customer service, and helpful tooling and explorers will be the best candidates for the future growth of NEAR. 

Join the Community
If you are interested in becoming a validator and participating in this pilot project, submit your application from this link.

If you’re just learning about NEAR for the first time and are seeing this post, we invite you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people who are excited for the future of the Open Web with NEAR. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.
NEAR Foundation Hires Chris Ghent To Lead Global Brand and Communications Efforts
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 2, 2021
NEAR Foundation is delighted to announce that Chris Ghent has joined NEAR Foundation as Global Head of Brand Strategy & Partnerships. Chris will be spearheading the Foundation’s efforts to build on its strategy of creating a blockchain that is simple to use, incredibly secure, and infinitely scalable.   

He’ll do that by looking to build the NEAR brand to help join the dots between product, the organization, and the community to ensure the NEAR ecosystem is working collectively to bring more people into web3 and deliver on its mission of mass adoption. 

“Chris brings exactly what this ecosystem needs right now — a clear and experienced voice to help surface the stories and ideas that matter so everyone can see what the NEAR ecosystem is capable of and what it’s doing well right now,” says Erik Trautman, NEAR Foundation’s CEO. 

An award-winning marketer and entrepreneur, Chris started his career launching an eCommerce retail start-up in 2005. In the marketing and communications industry, he has specialized in strategy first, digital-led, technology-powered, and data-driven initiatives. Delivering business strategies and marketing approaches that transform how companies go to market is his primary objective.

Chris has worked with leading brands including Breaker (formerly SingularDTV), First Republic Bank, Harman International Industries, Infiniti Motor Company Ltd, Johnson & Johnson, Keds, Nielsen, Novartis, Prestige Brands, and Stanley Black & Decker.

Chris has already spent three years in the crypto industry, previously leading the development of a US-based marketing team in NYC, which focused on global brand coordination and paid marketing initiatives in the Tezos ecosystem. He has been an advocate and early adopter of non-traditional blockchain based advertising solutions, partnering with Brave Browser from alpha to beta to mobile capabilities, and believes that traditional mediums like digitally connected out-of-home media will be key to mass adoption. He looks forward to driving awareness of the NEAR brand and delivering awareness that the NEAR ecosystem is the home to crypto/blockchain innovation. 

“Having worked in the crypto/blockchain space full-time since 2018, I’ve always been attracted to projects that have very clear value propositions yet have a hard time telling their story,” explains Ghent. 

“Teams and communities in crypto are fantastic at focusing on amazing technological advantages, but often overlook the core reasons why new users join the space or project: simplicity, a compelling brand, and a number of key features that can’t be found anywhere else. One of those is seamless UX for onboarding users, which is what attracted me the most to NEAR. It’s worked harder than most to make someone’s first step in crypto, simple.

Crypto Barriers 
Crypto has struggled to identify the needs of developers, engineers, and end-users curious about the industry. Is it easy to use? Can programming languages from Web2 be brought over to Web3? Are there hidden costs to deploying and maintaining code? 

It’s on the protocols, their foundations, and their communities to solve these issues if mass adoption is to come to crypto. It’s something the NEAR Foundation is focused on and looking to build on over the next 12 months.  

NEAR’s developer ecosystem, the community and founders, have consistently put the end-user at the heart of technological development and decision making. We often forget that the category is still relatively new, but NEAR has become an innovation inspiration for so many other projects and teams.

“I can’t wait to learn from what’s working best from the community and Foundation team to harness those insights in order to drive net-new developers into the ecosystem who will build even more of the most end-user friendly NEAR-based experiences.”

We are excited that Chris has joined our team to help us achieve these goals. His work will help NEAR continue to build out its brand and storytelling capability, while simultaneously creating better ways to support NEAR’s thriving ecosystem. 
NEAR Community Update: May 17th, 2019
COMMUNITY
May 17, 2019
We had a blast in NYC, kicking off Consensus week on Monday with a DeFi panel in a completely packed room. We followed it up the next day with a fascinating panel exploring the future of gaming in blockchain (meme of the week right below from this panel!). We also jumped on a panel on Staking and Validation. High quality edits will be available soon, so make sure to keep an eye on our twitter! On the development side, the major push has been the new wallet, economics design and the new version of Nightshade consensus. In community news, we’ve wrapped up the hackathon and have been having a great time in New York, collaborating and discussing the future of blockchain with some very smart and cool crypto teams!

Au revoir New York! Until next time!

Blockchain Gaming in 2019
Apparently “we’re starting!!!” @Mitch_Kosowski @NEARProtocol @neondistrictRPG @opensea pic.twitter.com/6ku8N0JeXh

— Matt Lockyer (@mattdlockyer) May 14, 2019

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
NY Consensus Week

It has been a HUGE week for NEAR events while we’ve been in New York for Consensus Week.

First off on Monday was a panel on the Future of DeFi, moderated by NEAR’s cofounder Illia, which had a completely packed house despite the rainy weather.


If you missed the livestream you can watch it here; we will be releasing the full videos of both our panels next week.

Also on Monday, Alex spoke on a panel about sharding with Quarkchain, Harmony, Thunder, Ontology, ETH and Zilliqa.

 

Fun meetup here in NYC, a lot of different teams presenting their take on blockchain sharding: @harmonyprotocol @Quark_Chain @zilliqa @OntologyNetwork @NEARProtocol @ethereum and more.#Consensus2019 #BlockchainWeekNYC pic.twitter.com/HFjF4yesIp

— protolambda (@protolambda) May 14, 2019

 

On Tuesday we ran two events simultaneously – a Crypto Community Managers’ Happy Hour hosted by Jess, where we met community managers from around the globe.

 

We also had a panel on the Future of Gaming hosted by Sasha from NEAR. The livestream is here if you missed it and the full video will be up soon.


We are so grateful to Nomadworks NY for hosting us for all NEAR’s events in New York; everyone on the team there is amazing and we had a blast!

Finally, Illia presented on a panel on Proof of Stake networks alongside Tezos, Cosmos, Parity, and Solana Labs. Livestream here. Illia will also be presenting on the economics of validation at this event tonight.

 

Talking next gen proof of stake protocols with @SolanaLabs, @cosmos, @NEARProtocol, @tezos and @ParityTech pic.twitter.com/Iw5QQdGYXm

— Wilson Withiam (@WilsonWithiam) May 15, 2019

Hackathon 

NEAR’s first hackathon, Hack.One, is closed, the judging completed, and the winners announced. Thanks so much to our esteemed judges Linda Xie (Co-founder & Managing Director of Scalar Capital), Peter Kieltyka (Co-Founder & CEO at Horizon Blockchain Games Inc.), and Sina Habibian (Advisor at the Ethereum Foundation) for their thoughtful and constructive feedback.


*Drumroll*
And our winners are:

1st place ($5000) – Team twitr, with a blockchain implementation of Twitter
2nd place ($3000) – Team Zod.TV,  with a decentralized video transcoder
3rd place ($1000) – Team azban, with a decentralized economy for data storage
Thanks to all the teams that participated, and keep an eye out for our next hackathon.

ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
The Wallet has gone through even more iterations and is very close to release. We’ve started breaking the mega Pull Request (that encapsulates all of the new consensus research up this point) into merge-able PRs. Lastly, we’ve begun the process of breaking our mono repo into many smaller ones, so that contributing is much easier.

There were 34 PRs in our multiple repos from 6 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

Application/Development Layer

Implemented RLP in assemblyscript.
Added testing to near-runtime-ts.
Nearlib
Extracted into separate GitHub repository and re-configured continuous integration
Improved error handling
Make continuous integration tests work with shared TestNet
Two version releases of near-shell, the dApp command line tool
NEARStudio
Tracking downloads in Google Analytics to see who moves from online IDE to local development
Improving downloaded code compatibility with CLI development tools
Wallet
Completed phone verification service
Integrated phone verification with blockchain
Integrated app-specific access keys into the wallet
Introduced common request error handling components
Added base64 encoding and decoding to near-runtime-ts
Blockchain Layer

Implemented economics that deducts fees directly from the balance instead of using gas/mana
Discussed new Nightshade consensus in Santa Clara
Currently breaking the gigantic research PR on the new consensus into smaller, mergeable PRs
Big refactoring PR of existing consensus to prepare for merge of Nightshade
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends ?

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR at ETHDenver 2022 Highlights
COMMUNITY
February 24, 2022
Couldn’t make it to the NEAR Lounge for #BUIDL Week at this year’s ETHDenver? This post has you covered with highlights from events at the NEAR Lounge and ETHDenver stages, as well as a major ecosystem announcement from NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin.

NEAR went to ETHDenver because the community believes in a collaborative, decentralized, multi-chain ecosystem of Open Web and Metaverse platforms. Projects like Aurora and Rainbow Bridge, for example, have helped build simple and secure bridges between NEAR and Ethererum, which are working to foster a truly global network of open-source Web3 projects. 

So, if you weren’t able to meet and connect with the NEAR developers and ecosystem partners building the decentralized multi-chain future, get up to speed with these highlights, and start learning to build at NEAR Education. 

Day 1 @ NEAR Lounge – Building Bridges with Community
On Day 1 of #BUIDL Week at the NEAR Lounge, the focus was on how the NEAR community is building bridges for a multi-chain future. 

Improving Web3 UX Through Appchain Technology 
The first presenters at the NEAR Lounge were the team leads from Octopus Network, who detailed their efforts to help kickstart an innovation wave on Web3. 

“So far, Web3 user application development hasn’t had great user experience because distributed ledger technology is more complex and expensive to build, which results in a downgraded UI,” said Octopus Network Editor Suzanne Leigh. “One of the key design considerations for Octopus is making Web3 accessible to all.

NEAR Foundation’s Jacob Lindahl
Leigh noted that new frameworks, like Substrate and Cosmos SDK, give Web3 developers a much bigger and better design space to deliver fully optimized Web3 applications. As Leigh explained, Octopus Network does this through application-specific blockchains (aka, appchains).

To hear more from Leigh and the rest of the Octopus Network team, listen to the Twitter Spaces recording. 

Introducing Pagoda, a Web3 Startup Platform
NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin took to the stage to announce the launch of Pagoda, the first-ever Web3 startup platform. Pagoda gives developers all the tools they need to build, create, and maintain Web3 applications. 

Illia Polosukhin introduces Pagoda
To hear Illia’s Pagoda announcement in its entirety, check out the Twitter Spaces recording, which also includes Pagoda’s Min Zhang going into detail on how NEAR’s sharding approach works. 

Developer Console and NEAR 101 Fundamentals 
After Illia’s announcement, Pagoda’s Josh Quintal demoed Developer Console—Pagoda’s developer platform for creating and maintaining dapps on NEAR. 

Developer Console features a number of interactive tutorials, a scalable RPC service, and operational metrics. It takes care of Web3 infrastructure so that developers can focus on what makes their dapps unique.

Josh Quintal talking through the Developer Console
To hear Josh explain how to deploy a smart contract and mint an NFT using Developer Console, be sure to listen to the Twitter Spaces recording. You can also tune in to the “NEAR 101 Fundamentals” talk hosted by NEAR Foundation’s Jacob Lindhal, another great primer on getting started building on NEAR. 

Day 2 @ NEAR Lounge – Rust, Aurora, Metapool, and Brave
The second day of ETHDenver at NEAR Lounge was full of variety, with talks, panels, and workshops covering everything from NEAR’s Rust programming language to Web3 funding, Brave browser’s gaming ambitions, and more.

Following the morning’s “In Rust We Trust” brunch, Pagoda’s Austin Abell taught attendees how to use the Rust programming language to create smart contracts on the NEAR protocol. Pagoda software engineer Phuong Nguyen followed this up with a workshop on how to test NEAR contracts on the near-workspaces Github.

After Pagoda’s opening workshops, NEAR Foundation’s Jacob Lindhal returned to the stage for a talk on how to get started with NEAR University’s borderless education efforts. You can listen to Jacob’s remarks on the Twitter Spaces recordings, or just sign up for a class at NEAR University. 

After lunch, Aurora team members took the stage to talk about building on Aurora, the EVM scaling solution built on NEAR. Alex Shevchenko, Founder and CEO of Aurora, explained how to build apps on Aurora, which Aurora’s Business Development Lead Danny Bocanegra followed up with “Getting Onboarded to Aurora’s Ecosystem”.

The Aurora-centric talks continued with a presentation by team members from Endemic, Chronicle, and TENKBay—three creator-focused NFT platforms recently launched on the Aurora EVM and NEAR Protocol. 

Day 2 also featured a fascinating fireside chat between Coinfund’s Jake Brukhman NEAR Foundation Grants’ Josh Daniels. Brukhman spent a good deal of time talking about the future of NFTs. 

Brave’s Luke Mulks and NEAR Protocol Founder Illia Polosukhin
“Our thesis at CoinFund is that this is just the beginning,” he said. “We have the entire mainstream world to convert to NFTs.”

Team members from the privacy-preserving browser Brave, which sponsored a MetaBUILD 2 challenge, also took the stage at the NEAR Lounge. Jonathan Sampson, Head of Developer Relations, talked about how gaming NFTs are a path to mainstream adoption, while Luke Mulks, VP of Business Operations at Brave, had a fireside chat with Illia on frictionless onboarding for a multi-chain future. 

Check out the Day 2 Twitter Spaces recording to hear these talks, as well as others on fractionalized assets, API3’s Aurora oracle solutions, and MoonNoobs, an Aurora-based platform for investing in the blockchain startups that are regularly surfacing throughout the NEAR ecosystem.

Day 3 @ NEAR Lounge – Research & DAOvelopment and Governauts Assemblage
Day 3 kicked off with the “NEAR DAOVersity Brunch”, an event co-hosted by NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament, NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin, and H.E.R. DAO Founder Tracey Bowen, a womxn-led developer DAO championing innovation and diversity. 

The day of DAOs got started with the “Building (Rainbow) Bridges, which showcased the NEAR community’s commitment and active work toward inclusivity. NEAR Foundation Grants’ Nicole Tay moderated the panel, which included Tracey Bowen, Mildred Idada (Founder, Open Web Collective), Kimberly Adams (Co-founder, Bridge Network), Barbara Liau (Co-Founder & COO, Nomad), and Kelsey Ruiz (Head of Content, Akash Network). 

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament
Interested in others exploring Web3 inclusivity and DAOs on the NEAR ecosystem? Check out the work of Chloe Lewis of Marma J Foundation, who gave an excellent workshop on multi-DAO governance within NEAR DAOs. Also, dig into the work of speakers Eugene Levanthal (Smart Contract Research Forum), Livia Deschermeyer (Token Engineering Commons), and Jessica Zartler (Commons Stack/BlockScience Forum Governauts + Token Engineering Academy)—each whom are working to make Web3 spaces inclusive and welcoming. 

Once immersed in DAOs and governance, check out AstroDAO, founded by Jordan Gray. AstroDAO is the NEAR ecosystem’s DAO-launching platform, and Gray shared a number of techniques and strategies for creating momentum for dapp communities on NEAR. 

NEAR at the ETHDenver Web3 Castle 
The NEAR community’s presence at ETHDenver continued after the talks, workshops, panels, and hacking at the NEAR Lounge. A number of folks from NEAR spoke on the Web3 Castle stages, exploring topics such as mainstream blockchain adoption, the multi-chain future, NEAR sharding, and more. 

Illia Polosukhin Talks Pagoda and NEAR
A major event for the NEAR community at ETHDenver was Illia Polosukhin’s announcement of Pagoda, the first-ever Web3 startup platform. Illia began with a brief talk on NEAR’s sharding, then demonstrated how Pagoda’s suite of tools and resources, including Developer Console, can help anyone build and maintain Web3 apps, in a simplified and elegant way. 

As Illia sees it, Pagoda will play a major role in launching the next generation of crypto startups. Check out his talk in the video below. 


Illia was also part of the panel “Is Blockchain the Future of Technology”, led by Time reporter Andrew Chow. Watch it below. 


NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament on Blue Chip Forays into Crypto
A lot of blockchain developers are interested in how traditional companies and financial institutions will integrate crypto technology. As part of the panel “Blue Chip Forays Into Crypto,” NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament leaned on her experience as CMO of Circle and CEO of Mettle to make some forecasts. 

“We are seeing more and more blue chips getting into this space but they need to wrap their heads around it,” said Flament, who emphasized how integral security will be for blue chip adoption. “There is a lot of education to be done and also a lot of streamline usability needed to make sure they get to the same understanding [as Web2].”

Listen to Marieke’s full remarks in the video below.


Alex Skidanov Imagines the Multi-Chain Future
A major theme for the NEAR community during #BUIDL Week and ETHDenver Main Event was the multi-chain future, where various protocols collaborate to elevate Web3. NEAR Co-Founder Alex Skidanov discussed this topic as part of the panel “A Multi-Chain Future”, which you can watch below. 


Alex Shevchenko Talks Aurora and Mainstream Adoption

Aurora Founder and CEO Alex Shevchenko spoke twice during the ETHDenver Main Event. In a talk at the Web3 Castle, Alex explained the two ingredients necessary to onboard the next billion users: a scalable, sharded blockchain infrastructure and mass-market user experience like simple subscription models and FaceID.


Alex also took part in the panel “EVM Interoperability Across Ecosystems” at the Art Hotel, which you can watch below. 


And that’s a wrap! See you at the next ETHDenver!


AI is NEAR: The Future of AI on the Open Web at NEARCON ‘23
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 25, 2023
If you’re as excited as we are about the future of AI and blockchain, then get ready because NEARCON ’23 is just around the corner. If you haven’t registered yet, consider this your invitation to do so now on the official NEARCON ’23 site.

This year’s edition has a special focus on the intersection of AI and Web3. NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, a pioneer in the AI world, is leading the charge. Let’s  explore the amazing speakers sharing their perspectives on this game-changing new field in must-see NEARCON sessions.

Keynote by Cosmose AI’s Miron Mironiuk
Miron Mironiuk, the mind behind Cosmose AI, will enlighten NEARCON attendees on how AI is shaping the future of consumer behavior analysis with its unique “Shoppertainment” app that seamlessly blends personalization, loyalty, and blockchain-based rewards. KAIKAI has consistently ranked in the top 3 dApps in Web3 since its launch.

AI on NEAR: The Future of Work and Governance by Illia Polosukhin
Illia Polosukhin, another NEAR co-founder and head of Pagoda, will bring his deep roots in AI to this discussion of the future of AI strategy on NEAR. He’ll explore how NEAR is integrating AI to revolutionize work and evolve governance on the blockchain with AI. Topics will include why AI needs blockchain and the emergence of new business models as both AI and blockchain mature.

Illia Polosukhin in Conversation With TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher
In this candid discussion, Illia will join TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher to discuss the evolving role of AI in the open web and what we can expect in the coming years. As the case for open source AI becomes clearer and as regulators across the world introduce new policies designed to mitigate risk, how can Web3 help this revolutionary tech evolve in a more positive direction? Join this fireside chat to learn more. 

AI + Blockchain = Future of Work
This dynamic panel discussion will delve into the transformative potential of integrating AI and blockchain technologies in modern work environments. If you’re curious what the future of work will look like with AI on the open web, you’ll find those thoughts here. 

AI+Web3 Keynote from Niraj Pant
Niraj Pant, previously an investor at Polychain and now building a startup at the intersection of AI and Web3, will provide key insights into how AI can be leveraged for decentralized applications and services.

AI Keynote by Alexander Skidanov
When Alexander Skidanov and Illia Polosukhin originally founded NEAR, it was as an AI company called NEAR.ai. After transforming NEAR into a blockchain network, and working on its well-known Nightshade sharding technique, Alex turned his attention back to AI and founded an AI startup building smarter large language models, or LLMs, in a more decentralized way. 

To get more details on these sessions, and to check out the full speakers list and agenda, head on over to nearcon.org.

Wrap-Up and Next Steps
NEARCON ’23 is set to blow last year’s away, with some of the brightest thought leaders in AI and the open web. And with NEAR’s co-founder Illia Polosukhin being an OG in the AI space, you can bet that the AI track at NEARCON will be awesome. So whether you’re a developer, an entrepreneur, or just a curious mind, NEARCON ‘23 has something for you. 

And let’s not forget, if you’re a student in Spain or Portugal, or a Ukrainian citizen living in Portugal, you’re eligible for free tickets. Hackers can also get in for free by participating in our hackathon event.
NEAR is already delivering on its promise of a blockchain that is simple, scalable, and secure. Now’s your chance to be part of bringing AI into the open web. Register for NEARCON ’23 today and witness firsthand how NEAR is shaping the future of AI and decentralization.
NEAR Foundation Signs Up to the Ethereum Climate Platform
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 17, 2023
NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce that it is signed up to the Ethereum Climate Platform. The Foundation has worked on making the NEAR Protocol and open web sustainable from the get-go, and this move is a major demonstration of that continued commitment to Web3 sustainability. 

The announcement also illustrates NEAR Foundation’s efforts at working collaboratively with globally recognized leaders to minimize the environmental impact of Web3 development. 

Ethereum Climate Platform: accelerating climate finance at scale
At COP27, ConsenSys and climate tech firm Allinfra convened and announced the Ethereum Climate Alliance. A group of technology companies, the ECA is aligned around the mission to accelerate decarbonization and scale climate action. It achieves this by deploying best-in-class technology and funding the development of digital environmental assets designed to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and deliver positive environmental and social impact well into the future.

Inspired by the Ethereum Merge, ECA is launching the Ethereum Climate Platform (ECP) — an initiative designed to collaboratively build a blockchain-based technology platform that will engage a decentralized community to accelerate climate finance at scale. The ECP is committed to redress and counteract the historical Ethereum-based carbon footprint, dating back to the network’s launch in 2015, as well as to accelerate the launch partners’ own decarbonization strategies.

NEAR as a sustainability model for ECP and beyond
By joining the ECP, NEAR Foundation is making clear its intention to act as a sustainability model to the broader tech and business community.  

The collective includes a still-growing list of prominent stakeholders from the Web3 ecosystems, including Laser Digital (Nomura), Microsoft, Polygon, The Climate Collective, Celo, Aave, Filecoin, and UPC Capital Ventures. Beyond open web ecosystem, the ECP also includes civil society leaders who are committed to mitigating human-driven climate change.

NEAR Foundation’s environmental stewardship is an integral part of its ethos. From inception, NEAR has focused on a computational alternative to PoW. 

In this system, known as Proof-of-Stake (PoS), there are no miners. Instead, validators stake a given token amount to allow themselves to take part. PoS blockchains incentivize communities to own and control the network. Only then can they validate blocks and collect a block award. Functionally, NEAR’s PoS, called Nightshade, allows the platform to realize its ambition of being simple, scalable, and secure. 

NEAR sustainability a cornerstone to mass Web3 adoption
From the outset, NEAR Foundation has been dedicated to bringing a billion users into a more open web, said NEAR Foundation CEO, Marieke Flament. 

“We recognised early on that sustainability would be a cornerstone of our approach to facilitating the widespread adoption of Web3 technologies,” Flament added. “By aligning with the Ethereum Climate Platform and implementing our Blockchain Operating System (BOS), we’re not just enhancing the user experience — we’re creating a paradigm shift in the blockchain industry that respects and supports our global environment.”

On a social and ecological level, NEAR’s Nightshade sharding approach allows NEAR Foundation to deliver on its carbon-neutral commitment. In 2021, NEAR Protocol was awarded the Climate Neutral Product Label, and its developers have been leading the charge in this era of extraordinary energy efficiency, creating an infrastructure that is lightning-fast, remarkably secure, and capable of accommodating millions of Web3 users.

NEAR Protocol achieved this after enlisting South Pole, a globally recognized climate solutions provider based in Zurich, Switzerland, to evaluate NEAR’s carbon footprint, find ways to reduce it, and counterbalance the remaining emissions with CO2 offsetting initiatives. The assessment revealed that NEAR Protocol was over 200,000 times more carbon efficient than Bitcoin, primarily due to the adoption of PoS over PoW.

Reforestation projects offset the minimal environmental impact of NEAR, rendering the NEAR Blockchain carbon neutral. Performing transactions on NEAR contributes to tree-planting initiatives in Colombia, Zimbabwe, and the United States via these carbon-offsetting projects.

“Having NEAR Foundation onboard this endeavor strengthens our joint mission significantly,” said Bill Kentrup, Executive Director of ECA. “Through persistent collective effort, we can bring to market climate finance tools that will accelate capital into climate-aligned assets and in turn,  significantly mitigate greenhouse gasses.” 

“As a fellow pioneer in the Web3 space, their participation is invaluable,” said Kentrup, “and we’re sincerely excited about the potential this partnership holds for the future.”


Register for NEAR’s June Town Hall: NEAR at Consensus
COMMUNITY
June 3, 2022
Howdy, NEAR World! This month the NEAR Town Hall will be broadcasting from Coindesk’s Consensus conference in Austin, Texas. Join us on Sunday, June 12, 2022 at 5:00pm GMT (1:00PM EDT/10:00PM PDT) for updates on the NEAR ecosystem and Web3 onboarding efforts, as well as for special Consensus-related segments. 

Here’s a brief preview of what to expect from the June Town Hall. And don’t forget to register for the Town Hall below. 

State of NEAR address
NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament will open the June Town Hall with a brief segment on why NEAR is thrilled to be a Level 5 sponsor of Consensus. She will also give developers, projects, and investors ecosystem updates, and remind the community of its shared vision of mainstreaming Web3 technology and apps. 

Flament’s segment will be a “State of NEAR”. In this segment, which comes at the mid-year point, Flament will reflect on NEAR’s tremendous growth. She will also address the bear market and speak of NEAR’s solid fundamentals for funding, support, marketing, and more. 

To round out her Town Hall spot, Flament will also highlight NEAR’s presence and interactions at this year’s Consensus gathering.

NEAR Protocol update
Following Flament’s introduction, NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin will give a mid-year overview and update on NEAR’s Nightshade sharding. He will also touch on what to expect from the NEAR Protocol throughout the rest of 2022 and into 2023. 

This Town Hall segment will be must-see for both new and prospective developers, projects, and investors curious about the state of NEAR’s scalability and security. 

NEAR Foundation updates
After Illia’s NEAR Protocol update, the Town Hall will pivot into NEAR Foundation updates. Jack Collier, NEAR Foundation’s new CMO, will get into a number of new and exciting foundation activities. After he shares his vision for the foundation’s marketing efforts.  

Yadira Blocker, the foundation’s Experiential Marketing and Events Lead, will update the community on upcoming events. Her segment will feature spots on Ethereum Community Conference (EthCC) and NEARCON, including where to find information on these events and how to stay updated as they approach. 

Blocker will also give an introduction to the NEAR Town Hall’s Consensus Spotlight. 

Consensus Spotlight and Town Hall Panel
This special Town Hall segment will feature “man on the street” video interviews from Consensus. They will feature NEAR Foundation team members David Morrison (Community Moderator) and Chad Lamon (Video Producer). 

After the video segment, Marieke Flament will introduce the Town Hall panel. Moderated by Cathy Hackl, a Tech Columnist and Thought Leader, this special panel will include a team of globally acclaimed and awarded creatives announcing their project on NEAR. So, be sure to tune in to the Town Hall to see what this super stealth and exciting project is all about. 
NEAR Weekly On Chain Data Report: December 9
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 9, 2022
As part of the Foundation’s commitment to transparency, each week it will publish data to help the NEAR community understand the health of the ecosystem. This will be on top of the quarterly reports, and the now monthly funding reports. 

You can find the quarterly reports here.

You can find monthly reports on funding here.  

Last week’s transparency report can be found here. 

The importance of transparency
The NEAR Foundation has always held transparency as one of its core beliefs. Being open to the community, investors, builders and creators is one of the core tenets of being a Web3 project. But it’s become apparent the Foundation needs to do more. 

The Foundation hears the frustration from the community, and it wants to be more pro-active in when and how it communicates. 

New Accounts and Active Accounts
New Accounts are new wallets being created on the NEAR blockchain. In the last days of November and the first days of December, the daily number of new accounts had been declining. This week however, activity has been trending up, with the average number of new accounts averaging 14,000 per day, with a weekly peak of 14,752 recorded on December 6.

This is down on November’s figure of 24,000 wallets per 24 hours, on average. These numbers are conducive with the overall decline in sentiment around blockchain.

Looking more broadly, the peak for account creation in Q4 was September 13 where 130,000 new wallets were created in one day. Collectively, these numbers equate to 22,551,000 total wallets on the NEAR blockchain.

The Daily Number of Active Accounts is a measure of how many wallets on NEAR are making transactions on chain. Over the last week, the number of daily active accounts has oscillated between a a low of 12,639 on December 5, to a peak of 14,752 on December 6.

Historically, this is a decline from highs of more than 100,000 active accounts on the network. The highest number of active accounts on any one day in Q4 this year was logged on September 14, where 183,000 accounts were active.

New Contracts and Active Contracts
Contracts on NEAR are simply programs stored on a blockchain that run when predetermined conditions are met. The Daily Number of New Contracts is a valuable metric for understanding the health and growth of an ecosystem.

The more active contracts there are, the more projects are actively engaging with the NEAR protocol. The chart below shows a cyclical rhythm to new contracts, with rises and falls. Over the last seven days, the number of new contracts reached a daily high of 54 on December 4, and a weekly low of 27 on December 6. This range is broader compared to the week before, with last week’s highest number of 44 on November 30, to a low of 12 new contracts on November 27.

Active contracts is a measure of contracts that execute in a 24 hour period. This number has remained consistent throughout the last week with an average of more than 600 active contracts on the NEAR network. Taking a historical perspective on these numbers, the average has declined in Q4, with previous highs in active contract activity coming in the third week of September 2022.

Used Gas and Gas Fee
Gas Fees are a catch all term for the cost of making transactions on the NEAR network. These fees are paid to validators for their services to the blockchain. Without these fees, there would be no incentive for anyone to keep the network secure.

Over the last week, the daily amount of gas, expressed here as PetaGas, which is the equivalent of 0.1 $NEAR, has maintained a fairly consistent value between 5,949 PetaGas and 6,743 PetaGas. To learn more about Gas on NEAR, there is an excellent explainer in the NEAR White Paper. Compared with last week, the Daily Amount of Used Gas has decreased, from highs of more than 8,000 PetaGas.

The Daily Amount of Gas correlates with the Daily Gas Fee used on the network. Over the last week, there has been an uptick in the amount of Gas used, which can be brought on by a number of different factors. One of the most common is increased activity among users of the network.

Daily Transactions
The daily number of transactions is a record of how many times the blockchain logged a transaction. This week’s data represents a healthy increase in the number of transactions. From lows of 328,000 transactions on December 3, to a weekly high of 388,000 transactions per day on December 6. Looking more broadly, NEAR transaction activity has been trending downwards in Q4, reflecting other on chain data presented here.

These reports will be generated each week and published on Friday.
The Evolution of the Open Web
COMMUNITY
April 29, 2020
Developers have been pitched Blockchain technology for many years based on a hand-wavy set of “use cases” which are tied to unclear definitions of how the technology works, what it’s actually good for and how the platforms that employ it are meaningfully different from each other. This has justifiably created both confusion and skepticism.

In this post, I want to break through that fog and provide a set of clear mental models for understanding how potential use cases drive the technical tradeoffs that each platform has been forced to make. These mental models derive from the progress that the technology has made over the past 10 years through three distinct generations from Open Money to Open Finance to Open Web.

My goal is that you leave with a much clearer and more concrete understanding of what blockchain technology is, what different platforms are good for and how the future might unfold.

 

A Quick Blockchain Primer
To cover the obligatory basics, a blockchain is essentially just a database that is run by a group of different operators rather than a single entity (like Amazon or Microsoft or Google). This gives it powerful properties because, unlike today’s clouds, you no longer have to trust the “owner” of the database (or their operational security) to maintain high value data. When the blockchain is public (as the largest ones are), anyone can use it for anything.

To enable this system to run across a wide range of potentially anonymous machines around the world, the system must have a digital token which facilitates the payment from users of the chain to the operators of the system (and provides security guarantees baked into the game theory behind it). Though it was co-opted by the misguided ICO boom in 2017, the core idea of “tokens” and of “tokenization” in general — that a single digital asset can be uniquely identified and transferred — is incredibly powerful.

It’s also important to separate the database portion which stores the data from the layer that actually modifies the data (the virtual machine). These are usually tied together to a degree because the technical properties of the database layer dictate what’s possible to do with the modification logic but each of them separately drives the higher level properties of the system. 

The chain can be optimized along several dimensions, for example security (think Bitcoin), speed, cost or scalability. The modification logic on top of this can also be optimized along several dimensions — it could be a simple “add/subtract” calculator (like Bitcoin) or a fully Turing complete virtual machine (like Ethereum or NEAR). 

So it is actually possible that two blockchain-powered platforms tune the underlying blockchain and VM to drive completely different functionalities and they might never compete with each other in the market. For example, Bitcoin is in a different world from Ethereum or NEAR which are totally separate from Ripple or Stellar, despite all being run using “blockchain technology.”

 

The 3 Generations of Blockchain
Both technological advances and specific system design decisions have driven blockchain’s expanding functionality during the 3 generations of its development, which occurred over the last 10 years. These generations can be grouped in the following way:

Open Money: Give anyone access to digital money.
Open Finance: Apply programmability to multiply the capabilities of that Open Money.
Open Web: Expand the scope of Open Finance to encompass all high value data and bridge it to consumer-scale.
Let’s start by examining Open Money.

 

First Generation: Open Money
Money is the basic building block of capitalism. Step one allowed anyone anywhere to have access to money.

One of the highest value pieces of data you can store in a database is money itself. That’s the innovation of Bitcoin — to provide a simple shared ledger that allows everyone to agree that Joe owns 30 BTC and just sent Jill 1.5 BTC. Bitcoin was tuned to optimize for security above all else. Their consensus is enormously expensive, time-consuming and bottlenecked while their modification layer is essentially just a “plus/minus calculator” which allows the transfers of balances and a few other tightly scoped operations.

Bitcoin is a good training tool because it illustrates the fundamental benefits of data stored on a blockchain: it is independent of any single third party and can be operated on permissionlessly (one holder of BTC can initiate a p2p transfer to another account without asking anyone).

Because of the simplicity and power of Bitcoin’s promise, “money” has been one of the earliest and most successful initial use cases for blockchain. But it turns out that people have many different ways that they want to use money so Bitcoin’s “extra slow, extra expensive, extra secure” tuning works well for storing value as if it were gold but doesn’t work well for uses like rapid e-commerce payments or cross-border transfers.

 

Tuning Open Money
For these other use cases, other chains have emerged and tuned their parameters accordingly:

Transfers: if you want to allow a million people to send occasional amounts of money around the world every day, you need something that’s much more performant and less expensive than Bitcoin but still maintains a healthy amount of security. Ripple and Stellar are two projects that have tuned their chains for this use case.
Rapid transactions: if you want to allow a billion people to spend digital money like they do with credit cards, you need to further tune the chain to be massively scalable, massively performance and low cost. To do this, you generally have to make some sacrifices along the dimension of security. There are two approaches to this. First, build a faster “layer 2” on top of Bitcoin which optimizes for fast performance but then stores the assets back in the Bitcoin “vault” when transactions are complete, like Lightning Network. Second, build a new blockchain which provides as much security as possible while still allowing for fast, cheap transactions, like Libra.
Private transactions: If you want to ensure that no one can infer who sent what to who, you would need to add a layer that anonymizes transactions, which sacrifices performance and adds to cost. Zcash and Monero have done this.
Because the token that represents this money is actually a fully digital asset, it can also be programmed. This can occur at the root level — for example, the total amount of Bitcoin that will ever be produced is coded into the core Bitcoin system — or it can be taken to a whole other level by having the right computing system on top of it.[1]

This is where Open Finance comes in.

 

Second Generation: Open Finance
With Finance, Money is no longer just a store of value or transactional asset — it can be operated on in useful ways which multiply its potential.

Things get far more interesting for digital money when you realize that the same properties which allow people to permissionlessly initiate transfers of Bitcoin also allow developers to write programs that do the same thing. In this context, think of this digital money as having its own independent API which doesn’t require any company to provide you with an API key and Terms of Use contract.

This is the promise of “Open Finance”, also known as “Decentralized Finance (DeFi)”. And it’s where we again hit the issues of technological progress and platform tuning.

 

Ethereum
As mentioned above, Bitcoin’s API is quite simple and non-performant. This makes it possible to deploy scripts to the Bitcoin network which can move Bitcoin around but, to do anything more interesting, you generally need to move the Bitcoin itself to another blockchain platform (which is a nontrivial operation).

Other platforms have worked to marry the security necessary to handle digital money with a more complex modification layer. Ethereum was the first to offer this. Instead of the “add/subtract” calculator of Bitcoin, Ethereum created a full virtual machine on top of the storage layer which allowed developers to write full programs and run them on the chain natively.

This is important because the security of the digital asset (eg money) that is stored on the chain is only as good as the security and robustness of the programs which can natively modify its state. Ethereum’s “smart contract” programs are essentially serverless scripts that run on the chain the same way that a vanilla “send Jill 23 tokens” transaction runs on Bitcoin. Ethereum’s native token is “Ether” or “ETH”.

 

Blockchain Components as Plumbing
The power of this took some time to emerge. Because the API on top of ETH is permissionless (like Bitcoin) but infinitely programmable, it became possible to create a series of building block components which essentially pipe ETH from one to another to accomplish useful work for the end user.

In the default world, this would require, for example, a big bank to negotiate contracts and API access with each of the individual providers. On blockchain, each of these components were independently created by developers and quickly scaled to handling millions of dollars of throughput and holding over $1B of value in early 2020.

For example, let’s start with Dharma, a wallet that allows users to store digital tokens and earn interest on those balances. This is a fundamental use case of traditional banking. The developers of Dharma generate that interest for their users by pulling together multiple components that were created on top of Ethereum. For example, users’ dollars are converted to DAI, an Ethereum-based “stable coin” which maintains the value of the US dollar, then piped into Compound, a protocol which lends these balances, thus earning users instant interest on their balances.

 

Implications of Open Finance
The key takeaway is that a real consumer-facing product was created by relying on a stack of components which were each created by a different team and which were used without asking for any permission or API keys and now handle millions of dollars of value. It is almost like open source software but, whereas open source software relies on downloading a copy of a particular library again for each implementation, open components are only deployed once and then anyone can just call that specific instance to access its shared state. 

Each of the teams who created those components can rest easy knowing that they won’t become liable for any oversized EC2 bills because someone is abusing their API — the metering and charging for use of these components is done intrinsically as part of the chain.

 

Performance and Tuning
Ethereum operates with similar parameters as Bitcoin, just slightly faster (blocks propagate about 30x faster) and slightly cheaper (instead of roughly $0.50 transaction cost on Bitcoin, it costs about $0.10[2]). This has allowed them to maintain comfortable security while allowing slow speed apps like asset management to flourish.

But, as a first-generation bare-metal technology, the Ethereum network has been brought to its knees in times of stress and suffers from a maximum 15-transaction-per-second bottleneck. This performance gap has left Open Finance stalled as a niche proof-of-concept. We are stuck with slow-moving assets similar to how the global financial system operated in the analog age of paper checks and telephone confirmations because Ethereum has less computing power than a 1990 graphing calculator. 

Ethereum showed a hint of the power of composable components for financial use cases but also opened the door to a much broader set of use cases, called the Open Web.

 

Third Generation: Open Web
Now anything which has value can acquire the properties of money, merging the Internet with Open Finance to create the Internet of Value and the Open Web.

We saw previously that “Open Money” encompasses a wide spectrum of different use cases and how a next generation technology, Ethereum, made Open Money far more useful by creating the permissionless composability of “Open Finance.” Now, we’ll see how one more generation of technology expands the possibilities of Open Finance even further to unlock the true potential of Blockchain.

Fundamentally, all the “money” we’ve been talking about is just a line item of data stored on the blockchain with its own open API. But the database can store anything.

While the nature of blockchain makes it best suited for elements that have meaningful value, the definition of “meaningful value” is highly flexible. Any data which is potentially valuable to other people can be set free by “tokenizing” it. “Tokenization” in this context is the process by which an existing asset — not a newly generated one like Bitcoin — is transferred on to the blockchain and provided with the same sort of permissionless API that Bitcoin and Ethereum have. As with Bitcoin, this allows for the option of globally enforceable scarcity (whether 21 million or just one)

Consider community projects like Reddit where users earn online reputation in the form of “Karma”. Then consider projects like Sofi where a wide range of signals are used to evaluate whether someone should be approved for a loan. In today’s world, if a hackathon team building the next Sofi wanted to incorporate the Karma score into their credit algorithm, they’d need to negotiate a bilateral agreement with the Reddit team to acquire certified API access. If Karma is tokenized, they have all the tools they need to integrate with Karma and Reddit never needs to know about it — they simply benefit from more users who want to grow their Karma because it’s useful around the world.

Even further, 100 different teams at the next hackathon can figure out new ways to take this asset plus dozens more and create a new set of publicly reusable components or build new consumer-facing applications from them.

This is the vision of the Open Web.

Just like Ethereum enabled the easy piping of high value money through permissionless components, any asset which has been tokenized can be piped through a similar set of components and “spent”, exchanged, collateralized, modified or otherwise interacted with as per the specification of its open API. 

 

Tuning for the Open Web
The Open Web isn’t fundamentally different from Open Finance — the first is really a superset of the second — but the expansion of Open Web’s use cases requires a substantial uptick in performance and also the capability to reach a new tranche of potential users.

The key requirements for a platform to drive the Open Web are:

Higher volume, higher speed, lower cost transactions — because the chain is no longer just handling slow-moving asset management decisions, it needs to scale to support more nuanced data types and use cases.
Usability — because the use cases will cross into consumer-facing applications, it’s critical that the components developers build or the apps on top of them allow for smooth end-user experiences, for example when they’re provisioning or linking accounts to various assets or platforms while still preserving user ownership of their data.
These specifications have not been met by any platform before because they are enormously complicated. It has taken years of research to arrive at the point where new consensus mechanisms merge with new runtimes and new scalability techniques while still maintaining the performance and security needed to maintain a backbone of monetary assets.

 

The Open Web Platform
There are dozens of blockchain projects coming to market this year which have tuned their platforms to address various subsets of the Open Money and Open Finance use cases. Given the limitations of the existing technology, it made sense for them to optimize for a specific niche.

NEAR is the only chain which has deliberately advanced its technology and tuned its performance characteristics to meet the full needs of the Open Web.

NEAR merges scalability approaches from the high performance database world with advances in runtime performance and years of progress on usability. Like Ethereum, it has a full virtual machine built on top of a blockchain but the underlying chain adjusts its capacity to meet demand by dynamically splitting computation into parallel processes (sharding) while still maintaining the security needed to keep the data safe.

This means that the full set of possible use cases can be built on NEAR — fiat-backed coins that give global access to stable currency, Open Finance tools that scale up to complex financial instruments and out to everyday people, and Open Web applications that integrate all of this to power everyday commerce and interaction.

 

Outro
The story of the Open Web is just beginning because we’ve only just developed the requisite technologies to bring it to its proper scale. With that milestone achieved, the future will be driven by the innovation that can be achieved on top of this new stack and how well supported are the developers and entrepreneurs who represent its leading edge.

For a sense of the potential impact of the Open Web, note the cambrian explosion that occurred when the early Internet, after several challenging years, developed the necessary protocols to finally allow consumer spending of money online in the late 1990s. The ensuing 25 years have seen web-based commerce grow to generate over $2 trillion in spending each year.

Similarly, the Open Web expands the scope and reach of the financial primitives of Open Finance and enables their inclusion in business- and consumer-facing applications in ways that we can guess but certainly not predict.

 

[1]: Bitcoin Script does allow some programmability but this is quite limited.
[2]: Both are based on an auction, so all numbers are approximate.
Understanding Rust Lifetimes
DEVELOPERS
January 9, 2019
No, seriously, this time for real

Coming to Rust from C++ and learning about lifetimes is very similar to coming to C++ from Java and learning about pointers. At first, it looks like an unnecessary concept, something a compiler should have taken care of. Later, as you realize that it gifts you with more power — in case of Rust it is more safety and better optimizations — you feel encouraged to master it but fail because it is not exactly intuitive and the formal rules are hard to find. Arguably, C++ pointers are easier to get immersed into than Rust lifetimes because C++ pointers are everywhere in the code, while Rust lifetimes are usually hidden behind tons of syntactic sugar. And so you end up being exposed to the lifetimes when syntactic sugar does not apply which is usually some complex cases. It is hard to internalize the concept when the only things you are exposed to are the complex cases.

Intro
The first thing one needs to realize about lifetimes is that they are all about references, and nothing else. For example, when we see a struct with a lifetime type-parameter it refers to the lifetimes of the references owned by this struct and nothing else. There is no such thing as a lifetime of a struct or a closure, there are only lifetimes of the references inside the struct or the closure. Therefore our discussion of the lifetimes will inevitably be about Rust references.

The motivation behind the lifetimes
To understand the lifetimes we first need to understand the motivation behind them, which requires understanding the motivation behind the borrowing rules first. The borrowing rules state:

At no point in the code, there are references to overlapping pieces of memory, a.k.a aliasing, such that at least one of them is used to mutate the content of the memory.

Simultaneous mutation and aliasing are undesirable because it is unsafe and it prevents the compiler from doing various optimizations.

Example
Suppose we wanted to write a function that shifts the given coordinates along the x-axis twice in the given direction.

struct Coords {
  pub x: i64,
  pub y: i64,
}
fn shift_x_twice(coords: &mut Coords, delta: &i64) {
  coords.x += *delta;
  coords.x += *delta;
}

fn main() {
  let mut a = Coords{x: 10, y: 10};
  let delta_a = 10;
  shift_x_twice(&mut a, &delta_a);  // All good.

  let mut b = Coords{x: 10, y: 10};
  let delta_b = &b.x;
  // shift_x_twice(&mut b, delta_b);  // Compilation failure. 
}
The last statement would have shifted the coordinate three times instead of two which could cause all kinds of bugs in the production system. The core problem is that delta_b and &mut b point to an overlapping memory, which is prevented in Rust through lifetimes and borrowing rules. Specifically, Rust compiler notices that delta_b requires holding an immutable reference to b until the end of main(), but in that scope, we also attempt creating a mutable reference to b, which is prohibited.

To be able to perform the borrowing rules check compiler needs to know the lifetimes of all references. In many cases compiler is able to derive the lifetimes on its own, but sometimes it is unable to and that’s where the developer needs to step in and annotate them manually. Additionally, it gives the developer a design tool, e.g. one can require that all structs that implement a certain trait have all their references live for the given duration, at least.

Compare Rust references to C++ references. In C++ one can also have const and non-const references, similarly to Rust’s x and &mut x. However, there are no lifetimes in C++. This helps C++ compiler with optimizations a bit, but it does not give complete safety guarantees. And so the above example would compile if it was written in C++.

Desugaring
Before we dive deep into understanding lifetimes, we need to clarify what a lifetime is, because various Rust documentation uses word lifetime to refer to both scopes and type-parameters. Here we say lifetime to denote a scope and lifetime-parameter to denote a parameter that compiler would substitute with a real lifetime just like when it infers types of generics.

Example
To make explanation transparent we will desugar some Rust code. Consider the following snippet:

fn announce(value: &impl Display) {
  println!("Behold! {}!", value);
}

fn main() {
 let num = 42;
 let num_ref = &num;
 announce(num_ref);
}
Here the desugared version:

fn announce<'a, T>(value: &'a T) where T: Display {
    println!("Behold! {}!", value);
}
fn main() {
'x: {
    let num = 42;
    'y: {
        let num_ref = &'y num;
        'z: {
            announce(num_ref);
        }
    }
}
}
The following desugared code was explicitly annotated with lifetime-parameter 'a and lifetimes/scopes 'x, 'y, and 'x.

We have also used impl Display to compare lifetime-parameters with general type-parameters. Notice how sugar was hiding both a lifetime-parameter 'a and a general type-parameter T. Note, the scopes are not a part of the Rust language syntax, we use them for annotation purposes only, and so this code will not compile. Also, in this and other examples, we ignore non-lexical lifetimes that were added in Rust 2018 to simplify the explanation.

Subtyping
Technically, lifetime is not a type, because we cannot construct an instance of it, unlike regular types like u64 or Vec<T>. However, when we parametrize functions or structs lifetime-parameters are used just like they were type-parameters, see the above announce example. Also, Variance rules that we will see later operate with lifetimes like they were types, so we will go along with calling them types in this post.

It is useful comparing lifetimes to regular types, and lifetime-parameters to regular type-parameters :

When compiler infers a type for a regular type-parameter it would complain if there are multiple types that can satisfy the given type-parameter. In the case of lifetimes, multiple lifetimes can satisfy the given lifetime-parameter and the compiler would take the minimal one.
Simple Rust types do not have subtyping, more specifically, a struct cannot be a subtype of another struct, unless they have lifetime-parameters. However, lifetimes allow subtyping, and so if lifetime 'longer completely encloses the lifetime 'shorter then 'longer is a subtype of 'shorter. Lifetime subtyping also enables limited subtyping on types that are parameterized with lifetimes. As we will see later this implies that &'longer int is a subtype of &'shorter int. The 'static lifetime is a subtype of all lifetimes because it is the longest. 'static is kinda opposite to an Object type in Java which is a supertype of all types.
The Rules
Coercions vs Subtyping
Rust has a set of rules that allows one type to be coerced to another one. While coercions and subtyping look similar it is important to differentiate one from another. The key difference is that subtyping does not change the underlying value while coercion does. Specifically, the compiler inserts some extra code at the site of coercion to perform some low-level conversion, while subtyping is just a compiler check. Since this extra code is hidden from the developer, coercions and subtyping look visually similar, because both might look like this:

let b: B;
...
let a: A = b;
Side-by-side coercion and subtyping:

// This is coercion:
let values: [u32, 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
let slice: [u32] = values;

// This is subtyping:
let val1 = 42;
let val2 = 24;
'x: {
    let ref1 = &'x val1;
    'y: {
        let mut ref2 = &'y val2;
        ref2 = ref1;
    }
}
This code works, because 'x is a subtype of 'y and so &'x is a subtype of &'y.

It is easy to differentiate the two by learning some of the most common coercions, the rest are much less frequent, see Rustonomicon:

Pointer weakening: &mut T to &T
Deref: &x of type &T to &*x of type &U, if T: Deref<Target=U>.
This allows using smart pointers like they were regular references.
[T; n] to [T].
T to dyn Trait, if T: Trait.
You might wonder why the fact that 'x is a subtype of 'y implies that &'x T is a subtype of &'y T? To answer this we need to discuss Variance.

Variance
It is easy to tell whether lifetime 'longer is a subtype of a lifetime 'shorter based on the previous section. You can even intuitively understand why &'longer T is a subtype of &'shorter T. But can you tell whether &'a mut &'longer T is a subtype of &'a mut &'shorter T? It is actually not, and to understand why we need the rules of Variance.

As we said before, lifetimes enable limited subtyping on types that are parameterized with lifetimes. Variance is a property of the type-constructors, where type-constructor is a type with parameters, e.g. Vec<T> or &mut T. Specifically, variance determines how subtyping of the parameters affects the subtyping of the resulting type. If type-constructor has multiple parameters, e.g. F<'a, T, U> or &'b mut V, then the variance is computed with respect to each parameter individually.

There are three types of variances:
F<T> is covariant of T if F<Subtype> is a subtype of F<Supertype>
F<T> is contravariant over T if F<Subtype> is a supertype of F<Supertype> F<T>is invariant over T ifF<Subtype> is a neither a subtype nor a supertype of F<Supertype>, making them incompatible.

When type-constructor has multiple parameters, we can talk about individual variances by sayint that, for example F<'a, T> is covariant over 'a and invariant over T. Also, there is actually a fourth type of variance, bivariance, but it is a specific compiler implementation detail which we do not need to touch here.

Here is the table of variances for most common type-constructors:

Taken from Rustonomicon
Covariance is basically a pass-through rule. Contravariance is rare and occurs only when one passes a pointer to a function that uses higher-rank trait bounds. Invariance is the most important one and we will see its motivation when we start combining variances.

Variance arithmetic
Now we know what are the subtypes and supertypes of &'a mut T and Vec<T>, but do we know what are the subtypes and supertypes of &'a mut Vec<T> and Vec<&'a mut T> ? To answer this we need to know how to combine variances of the type-constructors.

There are two mathematical operations for combining variances: Transform and the greatest lower bound, GLB. Transform is used for type composition, while GLB is used for all aggregates: struct, tuple, enum, and union. Let us denote in-, co-, and contravariance with 0, +, and -, respectively. Then Transform(x) and GLB(^) are described with the following two tables:

Taken from the following post that also contains additional details
Example
Suppose we want to know whether Box<&'longer bool> is a subtype of Box<&'shorter bool>. In other words, we want to know the covariance of Box<&'a bool> with respect to 'a. &'a bool is covariant with respect to 'a and Box<T> is covariant with respect to T. Since it is a composition we need to apply Transform (x): covariant (+) x covariant (+) = covariant (+). Which means we can assign Box<&'longer bool> to Box<&'shorter bool>.

Similarly, Cell<&'longer bool> cannot be assigned to Cell<&'shorter bool> because covariant (+) x invariant (0) = invariant (0).

Example
The following example from Rustonomicon demonstrates why we need invariance on some type-constructors. It attempts to construct a code that uses a freed object.

fn evil_feeder<T>(input: &mut T, val: T) {
    *input = val;
}

fn main() {
    let mut mr_snuggles: &'static str = "meow! :3";  // mr. snuggles forever!!
    {
        let spike = String::from("bark! >:V");
        let spike_str: &str = &spike;                // Only lives for the block
        evil_feeder(&mut mr_snuggles, spike_str);    // EVIL!
    }
    println!("{}", mr_snuggles);                     // Use after free?
}
Taken from Rustonomicon
Rust compiler would not allow it. To understand why we first desugar some of the code:

fn evil_feeder<’a, T>(input: &’a mut T, val: T) {
    *input = val;
}

fn main() {
    let mut mr_snuggles: &'static str = "meow! :3";
    {
        let spike = String::from("bark! >:V");
        ‘x: {
		let spike_str: &’x str = &’x spike;
		‘y: {
        		evil_feeder(&’y mut mr_snuggles, spike_str);
		}
	 }
    }
    println!("{}", mr_snuggles);
}
During compilation, the compiler will try to find parameter T that satisfies the constraints. Recall that compiler takes the minimal lifetime and so it will attempt using &'x str for T. Now, the first argument of evil_feeder is &'y mut &'x str and we are trying to pass &'y &'static str instead. Will it work?

In order for it to work &'y mut &'z str should be covariant over 'z, because 'static is a subtype of 'y. Recall that &'y mut T is invariant with respect to T and &'z T is covariant with respect to 'z. &'y mut &'z str is invariant with respect to 'z, because covariant(+) x invariant (0) = invariant (0). So it will not compile. The crisis has been averted!

Interestingly, this code would compile if written in C++.

Example with structs
With structs, we would need to use GLB instead of Transform, but it only matters for when contravariance is involved which only happens when we use function pointers. Here is an example that will not compile, because struct Owner is invariant with respect to lifetime-parameter 'c, which is also indicated by the compiler error message: type annotation requires that `spike` is borrowed for `’static`. Invariance essentially disables subtyping and so the lifetime of spike should match mr_snuggles exactly:

struct Owner<'a:'c, 'b:'c, 'c> {
        pub dog: &'a &'c str,
        pub cat: &'b mut &'c str,
}

fn main() {
    let mut mr_snuggles: &'static str = "meow! :3";
    let spike = String::from("bark! >:V");
    let spike_str: &str = &spike;
    let alice = Owner { dog: &spike_str, cat: &mut mr_snuggles };
}
Outro
It is hard to memorize all these rules and we do not want to search through them every time we encounter a difficult situation in Rust. The best way to develop intuition is to understand and remember unsafe situations that these rules prevent.

The first example with shifting coordinates allows us to remember the borrowing rules that prevent simultaneous mutation and aliasing.
&'a T and &'a mut T are covariant over 'a because it is always ok to pass a longer living lifetime where the shorter one is expected, except when they are wrapped in mutable reference and alike.
&'a mut T, UnsafeCell<T>, Cell<T>, *mut T allow mutable access and so to prevent the above evil_feeder example and alike we want it to be invariant over T which implies an exact match of the lifetimes.
With each release, Rust moves in the direction of usability and friendliness, however, lifetimes is a core concept that still requires a deep dive. This post assembled information from various resources so that you make one deep dive instead of many 🙂

Credits
The following resources were used to compile this post:

The entire Rustonomicon is a journey through ownership, borrowing rules, and lifetime.
Variance in Rust by kennytm does some ol’ compiler source code reading to present us with rigorous rules of Variance and Variance Arithmetic.
Subtyping and coercion in Rust by Nick Cameron discusses differences between coercion and subtyping.
Finally, thanks to Michael Kever, David Stolp a.k.a pieguy and everyone else in our Near Protocol team for the discussions of the lifetimes. For those interested in Near Protocol: we build a sharded general purpose blockchain with a huge emphasis on usability. If you like our write-ups, follow us on twitter to learn when we post new content:

http://twitter.com/nearprotocol
If you want to be more involved, join our Discord channel where we discuss all technical and non-technical aspects of Near Protocol, such as consensus, economics, and governance:

https://discord.gg/nqAXT7h
Near Protocol is being actively developed, and the code is open source, follow our progress on GitHub:

https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore
https://upscri.be/633436/

Upd
According to @centril, fn announce(value: &impl Display) to fn announce<'a, T>(value: &'a T) where T: Display is not an actually valid in-language desugaring, because turbofish will not allow applying a type like that. However, the point still stands;
In this post, we said that lifetimes are not types, but for simplicity we decided to call them types. Also, as pointed out by @centril lifetimes are what is called type-like.
AI is NEAR: Illia Polosukhin on AI and the Open Web at NEARCON ’23
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 26, 2023
Artificial Intelligence and Web3 have been two of the hottest topics of 2023. There has been significant interest in how the two technology ecosystems may converge in the coming years, with lots of interest from investors.

For NEARCON ‘23, we’ve designed a special track for AI and the open web: ”AI is NEAR”. Leading the way will be NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, a pioneer in the world of AI. 

Illia will share his perspective on this past year’s AI revolution, including its intersection with the Web3 space on NEAR in the months to come. 

Attention Is All You need
By now, everyone knows ChatGPT, which kicked off the latest AI revolution. But years before OpenAI released its AI chatbot, a group of researchers published a paper that would revolutionize the fields of AI and machine learning. 

The “Attention is All You Need” paper, of which Illia is a co-author, introduced transformers — the “T” in ChatGPT. Illia’s research was instrumental in laying the groundwork for the major LLMs of today, such as ChatGPT and Bard. 

At NEARCON ‘23, Illia will draw on his deep expertise in AI to offer a perspective on how AI and Web3 will converge and how blockchains can help AI develop in a more positive direction, mitigating potential risks and introducing more transparency. He will share the strategy for AI on NEAR going forward, including evolving NEAR governance with AI agents and the emergence of new business models. 

Illia Polosukhin and TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher in a fireside chat
In this candid discussion, Illia and TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher will explore the evolving role of AI in the open web, what we can expect next, and why the current state of AI controlled by major corporations needs to change. 

As the case for open source AI becomes clearer, and as regulators across the globe mitigate risk with new policies, the question now becomes: how can Web3 help AI evolve in a more positive direction?

Join the AI and Open Web chat at NEARCON ‘23
With some of the brightest thought leaders in AI and the open web, NEARCON ‘23 is one not to be missed. Alongside Illia, you will also hear from NEAR co-founder Alex Skidanov, who is currently working on an AI startup that is building smarter large language models, or LLMs, in a more decentralized way. 

There will also be a panel discussion on how AI and blockchain technologies will integrate with modern work environments. Niraj Pant, previously an investor at Polychain who is launching a startup at the intersection of AI and Web3, will also deliver a keynote on how AI can be leveraged for decentralized applications and services.

The full NEARCON ‘23 schedule is now live, so check out the other tracks!

If you’re a student in Spain or Portugal, or a Ukrainian citizen living in Portugal, you’re eligible for free tickets. Hackers also get in for free by applying to the NEARCON IRL Hackathon. 


Avalanche vs The new IOTA consensus algorithm, with a touch of Spacemesh
DEVELOPERS
June 5, 2019
Intro
IOTA Foundation recently announced a project called Coordicide, and an accompanying paper. The goal of the project is to remove the so-called IOTA Coordinator, a centralized service that finalizes transactions on IOTA.

The paper outlines multiple changes that are being considered in order to make it possible for the protocol to remove the coordinator and thus make IOTA completely decentralized.

One of the most interesting changes proposed is the new consensus algorithm for choosing between multiple conflicting transactions. The consensus algorithm is described in a separate paper that Dr. Serguei Popov, one of the core researchers at IOTA, published shortly before the Coordicide project was announced.

The new consensus design attracted a lot of interest because of the similarities people drew between it and Avalanche, a paper that was publicly endorsed by Emin Gun Sirer (who is also one of Avalanche’s likely co-authors) a few years ago.

DAGs of Transactions
Indeed, IOTA and Avalanche are both built around a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of transactions, with edges of the DAG representing approvals.

In both IOTA and Avalanche the DAG is used to reduce the amount of communication needed in order to finalize the transactions. If a certain transaction is final from the perspective of some node, then all the transactions approved by that transaction are also final (such transactions are called Ancestry in Avalanche and Past Cone in IOTA). If a particular transaction is rejected (which can only happen if the transaction spends the same UTXO as some other approved transaction) then all the transactions that approve the rejected transaction are also rejected (such transactions are called Progeny in Avalanche and Future Cone in IOTA).

Consensus
At the core of such a DAG-based protocol is the consensus algorithm that chooses one transaction amongst several conflicting transactions, i.e. transactions that spend the same UTXO. Such consensus doesn’t have to converge if multiple conflicting transactions appear at approximately the same time, and have an approximately equal number of participants initially preferring each one, since conflicting transactions can only come from malicious actors, and the protocol doesn’t need to guarantee finality for such actors. But if a particular transaction came first, and a sufficiently large percentage of participants preferred it for sufficiently long, a conflicting transaction that comes later shall never become the preferred transaction. The motivation behind this is that more transactions now exist in the Progeny / Future Cone of the transaction that arrived first, and if it gets rejected, all the new transactions from the honest nodes will get rejected too.

The consensus protocol that chooses between multiple conflicting transactions presented in the Avalanche paper is called Snowball. The consensus protocol for IOTA is presented in the aforementioned paper.

Since the consensus algorithms pursue similar goals, they also are quite similar underneath. At the core of both consensus algorithms is a node doing the following procedure iteratively until it becomes sufficiently certain that consensus has been reached:

Choose a small sample of other nodes (on the order of 10) and query the outcome they currently prefer;
Update the node’s current belief based on the resulting votes.
The “update the current belief” part is the core of such consensus algorithms. Since the consensus protocols need to work in the presence of adversaries that will behave in such a way as to prevent the network from reaching consensus, naive approaches (such as just preferring the outcome that was preferred by the majority of sampled nodes, or changing preference if a large percentage of sampled nodes (say 80%) believe in the opposite outcome) do not work.

Consensus properties
Before we proceed, let’s define what “do not work” means. There are three ways in which these consensus algorithms can break:

Agreement failure — when two nodes both decide that some outcome was agreed upon, but those outcomes differ;
Termination failure — when no consensus is reached after an arbitrarily long period of time;
Integrity failure — when consensus is reached on some outcome, but that outcome was not proposed by anyone. An example of integrity failure is reaching consensus on value 0, when all the participants initially proposed the value of 1.
In the context of Snowball and the new IOTA consensus protocol, Agreement failure is absolutely not acceptable, and Integrity failure is also not acceptable, but in a slightly adjusted way. It is not only necessary that consensus is reached on the outcome that was proposed by someone, but also that if a majority of nodes were proposing some outcome, no other outcome shall be agreed upon, even if some nodes in the minority were proposing it.

The termination would also be desirable, but both protocols deemphasize it for the cases with more than one proposed outcome, arguing that more than one proposed outcome means multiple transactions spending the same UTXO, which can only come from malicious actors.

Both Snowball and the new IOTA consensus protocol provide agreement, at least as far as I can tell (though it’s important to note that the Avalanche paper has a typo that currently means Snowball doesn’t provide Agreement; with the typo fixed it is unlikely that Agreement can be violated). For both of them, it is easy to argue that if a majority of nodes initially sway towards one of the outcomes, the nodes will not switch to the other outcome no matter what malicious actors do, so Integrity (as defined above) is also present.

Termination of the new IOTA consensus and Snowball
The important difference comes when we consider Termination.

Let’s get back to the “update the current belief” part. After sampling the votes of the 10 peers a node needs to somehow adjust their current preference. In snowball each node maintains several counters to remember its confidence in each of the outcomes, and waits for several consistent consecutive samples before it changes its belief. This way adversaries cannot easily sway nodes towards one decision or the other, and cannot violate Agreement.

However, this doesn’t help much with Termination. In our simulation of Snowball we show that with the parameters provided in the paper, consensus can be kept in a metastable state for thousands of iterations if just 4% of the nodes are adversarial. With just 10% adversaries, not only does the consensus process remain in the metastable state indefinitely, but also, the nodes that believe in each outcome increase their confidence in their preferred outcome to very large numbers and continue to become more confident, bringing the consensus process into a state from which it provably cannot escape.

Thus, Snowball as-is only has Termination in the binary consensus setting with a very low percentage of adversaries. Here’s a simulation with 17% adversaries:

Read more about it here.

IOTA consensus uses a very different approach. It doesn’t maintain any counters, and instead does the following to choose between 0 and 1:

Each node samples current beliefs of k (say k=10) other nodes;
After that, all the nodes run some distributed randomness generator to generate some threshold between some value beta and 1 – beta. I.e. if beta = 0.3, then the value will be picked between 0.3 and 0.7;
Each node then chooses 1 if the number of nodes that prefer 1 in their sample was bigger than beta * k, otherwise it chooses 0.
The core idea here is that since the random value is chosen after the samples were performed, even an omniscient adversary (an adversary who knows the current preferences and states of all the nodes, but not the random value that will be generated in the future) doesn’t know which threshold to sway the samples towards.

To understand why this helps, imagine that the adversary can actually predict the value of the random generator, and knows it will be 0.7. If k=10, the adversary knows that in order to keep the consensus process in a metastable state, it wants approximately half of the nodes to sample less than 7 ones, and approximately half the nodes to sample more than 7 ones. If it also knows that in the current population of honest nodes 62 nodes prefer 1, it will make exactly 8 of the malicious nodes report 1 as well (so that together with the honest nodes, exactly 70 nodes report 1), and the remaining malicious nodes report 0. This way the median number of sampled ones will be 7, and thus approximately half of the nodes will end up sampling more than beta * k = 7 ones and choose one, while approximately half of the nodes will end up sampling less than 7 ones and choose zero. The adversary will then continue doing it in the future rounds, preventing the consensus process from converging.

However, consider what happens if the adversary doesn’t know the threshold. The adversary could try to report different outcomes to the different honest nodes that query them, but no matter what distribution of sampled votes they end up signalling, (with some non-trivial probability) the threshold they choose will cause a large percentage of the honest nodes to have queried samples that lie on the same side of the threshold. Thus, a large percentage of the participants will end up choosing the same outcome for the next round.

Such a consensus algorithm is significantly harder to stall. However, it relies on the existence of a distributed random number generator that generates the required randomness for the thresholds. Such randomness generation is a rather hard problem, especially given that the consensus strives for low network overhead. If Snowball had access to a distributed random number generator, the protocol’s designers could just make nodes choose the outcome of a random number generator in the event that the consensus process gets stuck in a metastable state.

For example, an idea like this is used in one of the components of Spacemesh. See professor Tal Moran explaining this approach here in a whiteboard session we recorded with him a few weeks ago.

Outro
In short, the new IOTA consensus is definitely in the same family of consensus algorithms as Snowball, but it is far from just being a Snowball copycat. As described, it is likely to have better liveness, but it relies on the existence of a distributed random number generator, which on itself is a complex problem (though the IOTA paper provides several references to existing research). If we assumed such a generator were available, it could be used in a variety of ways to escape the metastable state.

I work on a blockchain protocol called NEAR. It is a sharded protocol with a huge emphasis on usability. I wrote a lot about sharding before (see one and two), and also have a piece on usability.

Myself and my co-founder Illia often invite founders and core researchers of other protocols to a room with a whiteboard and record an hour-long video diving deep into their tech. We have episodes with Ethereum Serenity, Cosmos, Polkadot, Ontology, QuarkChain and many other protocols. All the episodes are conveniently assembled into a playlist here.

Follow myself and NEAR on Twitter to stay up to date with our progress and see new write-ups and whiteboard sessions.
NEAR APAC Day One: Scaling Local Adoption, Regional Regulation, and AI in Web3
COMMUNITY
September 9, 2023
After many months in the making, the inaugural NEAR APAC conference kicked off today in Ho Chi Min City, Vietnam. Held in conjunction with the NEAR Vietnam community and NEAR Foundation, NEAR APAC is showcasing the vibrant crypto and Web3 community across the region as well as the potential of the B.O.S. and Open Web both locally and globally.

The day was charged with excitement, drawing over 8,000 attendees from various corners of the APAC region and beyond. With Web3 thought leaders, innovators, and enthusiasts converging in Vietnam, Day One of NEAR APAC kicked off with a slew of riveting discussions, industry insights, and speculations on the future of the Open Web with a focus on APAC.

From discussions around regional growth and investment potential to how AI and blockchain will transform the future of work, here’s everything that went down at an incredible start to NEAR APAC.

Setting the stage for NEAR APAC with Vietnam in focus
The event kicked off with a focus on southeast Asia, with NEAR’s Vietnam country director Riley Tran welcoming attendees and providing context as to Asia’s critical role in the overarching development and expansion of Web3. Tran was followed by two NEAR luminaries, CEO Marieke Flament and co-founder Illia Polosukhin.

“Asia’s young demographics and rapid digital growth, especially in Vietnam, position it as a leader in crypto and blockchain growth,” Riley explained. “With over 100 million new internet users in just three years, Asia’s momentum in Web3 is accelerating”

Marieke added that the overall NEAR ecosystem remains strong with over 29M active wallets and 650K daily active accounts. She added that a collaborative approach to building tomorrow’s Open Web is critical for tackling significant societal and digital challenges.

“Today’s Web 2.0 is closed and siloed, with the prevailing digital culture being a toxic dialectic,” Marieke expressed. “But the value loop of an Open Web holds immense promise. We’re already seeing how projects like KaiKai, SWEAT, and PlayEmber can move the needle in the right direction.”

Echoing Mariek’s sentiment, Illia emphasized that it’s not necessarily about championing a specific blockchain, but about creating a common layer and interface for the Open Web. This is precisely what the Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S.) is in the process of achieving.

“Looking forward, tech isn’t the only focus,” said Illia. “It’s about blending scalable solutions with user-centric experiences, with the B.O.S. becoming the essential entry point into Web3 for both users and developers.”

Asia’s role in mainstream adoption and regulatory hurdles
The push for mainstream blockchain adoption in APAC was also in focus on Day One, with NEAR Foundation CMO Jack Collier leading a panel discussion on current adoption challenges and how APAC can potentially lead the way in overcoming them.

“I’m extremely bullish on gaming as a key part of mass adoption,” opined Don Pham, Google Cloud’s regional Web3 specialist. “Vietnam is the birthplace of Axie Infinity, which is just the beginning of blockchain gaming’s potential. Use cases like loyalty, gaming, and music NFTs combined with better UX will likely be the path forward.”

The discussion dove deeper into the importance of user experience in the adoption of blockchain. Marieke reiterated that while technology forms the backbone, the real test will be simplifying the user journey, which can significantly hasten adoption across the APAC region as well as globally.

Regulation was also in focus with a panel about blockchain policies and APAC’s vision for governments and associations. Mary Beth Buchanan, a board member of the Cardano Foundation, drove home the need for regulatory clarity while discussing regional frameworks in countries like Hong Kong.

“The biggest challenge is not necessarily regulation, but lack of clarity,” observed Buchanan. “If regulations are unclear that will cause investors not to want to invest in the space. Builders become hesitant to build and users aren’t going to know what the rules are. Regulators need to recognize that clarity is what everyone wants.”

Spotlight on Artificial Intelligence during the afternoon sessions
Day One of NEAR APAC dedicated a significant chunk of its schedule to exploring the intricate interplay between AI and blockchain, particularly their role in APAC’s future technology and Web3 landscape. Illia took the stage just after the lunch break to discuss the Convergence of AI and Web3, diving deep into AI-empowered DAO and the future of AI-assisted work.

“While technologies like ChatGPT have found product market fit, much of AI is still siloed and doesn’t empower open source communities and projects,” Illia posited. “Web3 can operate in the middle, with AI models incorporating all participants and data sources. DAOs, for example, can be co-piloted by AI to achieve goals and KPIs faster and more efficiently.”

In the following panel discussion entitled “The Roles of Blockchains in an AI World,” Illia was joined by several AI and blockchain experts from the APAC region. One of the more distinguished panel members was Dr. Nguyen An Khuong, a lecturer and blockchain researcher from Ho Chi Minh University of Technology, who provided an academic perspective. 

“We have a lot of research endeavors in Vietnam around ensuring AI’s ethical applications using blockchain,” commented Dr. Nguyen. “We’re looking at how transparency and accountability in AI decisions can be drastically improved with blockchain technology. Combining a neutral AI with a blockchain’s public ledger could enhance the ecosystem and foster wider adoption.”

Illia drove home that the potential “Skynet” scenario of AI taking over the world is mostly a projection of what humans might do if they were given supercomputing powers. In reality, developments like the B.O.S. and NEAR Tasks will aid humans in success and productivity, with AI agents acting as middlemen for assistance, sourcing, and even creativity.

Day One of the first-ever NEAR APAC was a rousing success, with these highlights just being the tip of the iceberg. The crowd was treated to bánh mì’s and Manga cosplay during lunch, B.O.S. building and gaming workshops on the Builder Stage, and an awe-inspiring NFT gallery from APAC creators.

As the sun sets in Saigon, the NEAR Foundation couldn’t be more appreciative of the Vietnamese crypto community. The momentum rolls on tomorrow with Day Two, so stay tuned for more updates and insights around emerging APAC trends in Web3, how blockchain gaming is taking off in Asia-Pacific, and local DeFi developments. 

If Day One was any indication, the NEAR community’s growth, presence, and development in APAC will only continue accelerating through 2023 and beyond!
NEAR Foundation and Seracle Team to Nurture the Web3 Ecosystem with DevOps Efficiency
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 7, 2023
NEAR Foundation and Seracle, a top blockchain cloud platform, have established a partnership to revolutionize the world of Web3 development. This alliance, forged in the name of innovation and cost-efficiency, capitalizes on Seracle’s unique Litenode architecture.

This groundbreaking technology aims to drive down costs, with the potential for reducing a project’s monthly expenditures on node maintenance and DevOps by up to 90%.

Introducing the Litenode and the Web3 Incubation Center
The Litenode architecture is one of the linchpins in this strategic collaboration. Its design facilitates dramatic cost savings, all while ensuring quality isn’t compromised. But it doesn’t stop there. 

The integration of a Web3 incubation center, nestled in the bustling tech hub of Pune, India, gives developers access to a fertile innovation environment. This collaborative center presents developers with a unique opportunity to immerse themselves in a vibrant ecosystem dedicated to the development, learning, and scaling of Web3 projects.

“Seracle’s enthusiasm, technical capabilities, and experience in the Web3 space make them an ideal partner to grow NEAR,” said Arpit Sharma, Managing Director of APAC, MENA of NEAR Foundation, expressing enthusiasm for the collaboration’s potential. 

This partnership, with its focus on communal growth and knowledge sharing, is poised to cultivate an enriched community of developers ready to take on the challenges of the Web3 landscape.

How NEAR and Seracle are financing the next wave of Web3 
To bring these ambitions to fruition, financial support is vital. Seracle has committed to providing substantial backing, offering platform credits from a pool of $100,000. These credits serve to alleviate the financial burdens of upfront costs, letting developers channel their focus into the creative process. 

NEAR Foundation, in step with this initiative, pledges to offer grants to select innovative projects based at Seracle’s incubation center. Looking ahead, the partnership has set its sights high. The ambitious goal to onboard around 100 Web3 projects and engage with 5,000 developers this year underscores the commitment to growth and innovation. 

Shrikant Bhalerao, CEO of Seracle, shares this vision and expresses his optimism about the partnership, stating that “NEAR boasts some of the most innovative solutions in the Web3 space. We anticipate that our partnership with NEAR will contribute to a significant 30% growth in our revenue.”

With such dedication to growth and innovation, the collaboration between NEAR Foundation and Seracle is shaping up to be an inspiring chapter in the evolution of the Web3 ecosystem. Leveraging cost-efficient technology, fostering a vibrant community, and providing robust financial support, this partnership stands as a beacon for the future of Web3 development.
Case Study: Aurora’s Alex Shevchenko on Scaling Solidity Smart Contracts
COMMUNITY
August 16, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In these Case Study videos, NEAR Foundation showcases some of these projects. 

In the latest NEAR Foundation Case Study video below, Alex Shevchenko, co-founder and CEO of Aurora Labs, talks about the developer studio’s work in making it easier for developers integrating Solidity smart contracts on NEAR. 

“Aurora is a solution that allows you to launch your Solidity smart contracts on NEAR,” says Shevchenko. “We’re also adding something new: a scalability feature for the NEAR Protocol — something that can make EVM future-safe and make a destination of Aurora plus NEAR a final one for businesses to come.”

“We are focusing on the user experience,” he adds. “We have a whole set of products that are helping blockchain businesses to make the user experience much more convenient.” 


NEAR Foundation Launches New AMA Series
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 28, 2022
The NEAR Foundation realizes there has been an issue with communication to the NEAR ecosystem. We hear you. 

To that end, NEAR Foundation will host its first AMA on Twitter Spaces next Tuesday, November 1, which will be moderated by Community Team member Marcus Ribeiro. Bring your questions and concerns to Foundation CEO Marieke Flament, NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin, and the rest of the Foundation leadership team. 

NEAR Foundation’s commitment to improving communication will also include a weekly blog and more regular AMAs designed to update the community on the Foundation’s activities. Bring your ideas to next week’s AMA as well as other future ones! 

Stay tuned for AMA details this coming Monday.
Thresholded Proof Of Stake
DEVELOPERS
September 11, 2018
A central component of any blockchain is the consensus. At its core, Blockchain is a distributed storage system where every member of the network must agree on what information is stored there. A consensus is the protocol by which this agreement is achieved.

The consensus algorithm usually involves:

Election. How a set of nodes (or single node) is elected at any particular moment to make decisions.
Agreement. What is the protocol by which the elected set of nodes agrees on the current state of the blockchain and newly added transactions.
In this article, I want to discuss the first part (Election) and leave exact mechanics of agreement to a subsequent article.

Proof of Work:

Examples: Bitcoin, Ethereum

The genius of Nakamoto presented the world with Proof of Work (PoW) consensus. This method allows participants in a large distributed system to identify who the leader is at each point in time. To become a leader, everybody is racing to compute a complex puzzle and whomever gets there first ends up being rewarded. This leader then publishes what they believe is the new state of the network and anybody else can easily prove that leader did this work correctly.

There are three main disadvantages to this method:

Pooling. Because of the randomness involved with finding the answer to the cryptographic puzzle which solves a given block, it’s beneficial for a large group of independent workers to pool resources and find the answer more predictably. With pooling, if anybody in the pool finds the answer, all members of the pool gets fraction of the reward. This increases likelihood of payout at any given moment even if each reward is much smaller. Unfortunately, pooling leads to centralization. For example it’s known that 53%+ of Bitcoin network is controlled by just 3 pools.
Forks. Forks are a natural thing in the case of Nakamoto consensus, as there can be multiple entities that found the answer within same few seconds. The fork which is ultimately chosen is that which more other network participants end up adopting. This leads to a longer wait until a transaction can be considered “final”, as one can never be sure that the current last block is the one that most of the network is building on.
Wasted energy. A huge number of customized machines operate around the world solely performing computations for the sake of identifying who should be the next block leader, consuming more electricity than all of Denmark. Iceland for example spends a significant percentage of all electricity produced on mining Bitcoin.
Proof of Stake.

Examples: EOS, Steemit, Bitshares

The most widely adopted alternative to Proof of Work is Proof of Stake (PoS). As an idea, it means that every node in the system participates in decisions proportionally to the amount of money they have.

One of the main ways of using PoS in practice is called Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS). In this system, the whole network votes for “delegates” — participants who maintain the network and make all of the decisions on behalf of the other members. Depending on the implementation, delegates must either personally stake a large sum of money or use it to campaign for their election. Both of these mean that only high net worth individuals or consortia can be delegates.

In theory, this is very similar to how equity in companies works. In that case, small equity holders participate in elections and elect a small number of decision makers (the board of directors), who are typically large equity holders. These large equity holders then make all of the major decisions on the behalf of all shareholders.

Depending on the specifics of consensus itself, the Proof of Stake system can address the forking and wasted energy that are problematic with Proof of Work. This method still has downside of centralization due to either small number of individual nodes (EOS) or centrally controlled pools end up participating in network maintenance. Also, in specific implementations of DPoS, the fact that all delegates know each other means that slashing (penalizing delegate for wrongdoing by taking their stake) may not happen because a majority of delegates must vote for it.

Ultimately, these factors mean that a small club of rich get richer, perpetuating some of the systemic problems that blockchains were created to address.

Thresholded Proof Of Stake:

Examples: NEAR

NEAR uses an election mechanism called Thresholded Proof of Stake (TPoS). The general idea is that we want a deterministic way to have a large number of participants that are maintaining network maintenance thereby increasing decentralization, security and establishes fair reward distribution. The closest alternative to our method is an auction, where people bid for fixed number of items and at the end the top N bids win, while receiving a number of items proportional to the size of their bids.

In our case, we want a large pool of participants (we call them “witnesses”) to be elected to make decisions during a specific interval of time (we default to one day). Each interval is split into a large number of block slots (we default to 1440 slots, one every minute) with a reasonably large number of witnesses per each block (default to 1024). With these defaults, we end up needing to fill 1,474,560 individual witness seats.

Example of selecting set of witnesses via TPoS process
Each witness seat is defined by the stake of all participants that indicated they want to be signing blocks. For example, if 1,474,560 participants stake 10 tokens each, then each individual seat is worth 10 tokens and each participant will have one seat. Alternatively, if 10 participants stake 1,474,560 tokens each, individual seat still cost 10 tokens and each participant is awarded with 147,456 seats. Formally, if X is the seat price and {Wi} are stakes by each individual participant:

Formula to identify single witness seat threshold
To participate in the network maintenance (become a witness), any account can submit a special transaction that indicates how much money one wants to stake. As soon as that transaction is accepted, the specified amount of money is locked for at least 3 days. At the end of the day, all of the new witness proposals are collected together with all of the participants who signed blocks during the day. From there, we identify the cost for an individual seat (with the formula above), allocate a number of seats for everybody who has staked at least that amount and perform pseudorandom permutation.

NEAR Protocol uses inflationary block rewards and transaction fees to incentivize witnesses to participate in signing blocks. Specifically, we propose an inflation rate to be defined as percentage of total number of tokens. This encourages HODLers to run participating node to maintain their share in the network value.

When participant signs up to be witness, the portion of their money is locked and can not be spend. The stake of each witness is unlocked a day after the witness stops participating in the block signature. If during this time witness signed two competing blocks, their stake will be forfeited toward the participant that noticed and proved “double sign”.

The main advantages of this mechanism for electing witnesses are:

No pooling necessary. There is no reason to pool stake or computational resources because the reward is directly proportional to the stake. Put another way, two accounts holding 10 tokens each will give the same return as 20 tokens in a single account. The only exception if you have less tokens then threshold, which is counteracted by a very large number of witnesses elected.
Less Forking. Forks are possible only when there is a serious network split (when less then ⅓ adversaries present). In normal operation, a user can observe the number of signatures on the block and, if there is more than ⅔+1, the block is irreversible. In the case of a network split, the participants can clearly observe the split by understanding how many signatures there are versus how many there should be. For example, if the network forks then the majority of the network participants will observe blocks with less than ⅔ (but likely more than ½) of necessary signatures and can choose to wait for a sufficient number of blocks before concluding that the block in the past is unlikely to be reversed. The minority of the network participants will see blocks with less than ½ signatures, and will have a clear evidence that the network split might be in effect, and will know that their blocks are likely to be overwritten and should not be used for finality.
Security. Rewriting a single block or performing a long range attack is extremely hard to do since one must get the private keys from witnesses who hold ⅔ of total stake amount over the two days in the past. This is with assumption that each witness participated only for one day, which will rarely happen due to economic incentive to continuously participate if they holding tokens on the account.
A few disadvantages of this approach:

Witnesses are known well in advance so an attacker could try to DDoS them. In our case, this is very difficult because a large portion of witnesses will be on mobile phones behind NATs and not accepting incoming connections. Attacking specific relays will just lead to affected mobile phones reconnecting to their peers.
In PoS, total reward is divided between current pool of witnesses, which makes it slightly unfavorable for them to include new witnesses. In our approach we add extra incentives for inclusion of new witness transactions into the block.
This system is a framework which can incorporate a number of other improvements as well. We are particularly excited about Dfinity and AlgoRand’s research into using Verifiable Random Functions to select random subset of witnesses for producing next block, which helps with protecting from DDoS and reducing the requirement to keep track of who is a witness at a particular time.

In future posts of this series, we will discuss the Agreement part of our consensus algorithm, sharding of state and transactions and design of distributed smart contracts.

To follow our progress you can use:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol
Discord — https://near.chat
https://upscri.be/633436/

 

Thanks to Ivan Bogatyy for feedback on the draft. Thanks to Alexander Skidanov, Maksym Zavershynskyi, Erik Trautman, Aliaksandr Hudzilin, Bowen Wang for helping putting together this post.
Aurora Partners With ConsenSys, Bringing MetaMask, Infura and More Ethereum Tools to NEAR
COMMUNITY
December 2, 2021
Aurora, the Ethereum scaling solution that allows projects built on Ethereum to utilize the cutting-edge technology of the NEAR Protocol, is partnering with ConsenSys, the enterprise blockchain company to provide access to its suite of developer tools. 

The partnership aims to empower both the NEAR and Ethereum ecosystems by improving developer facilities – through the availability of the product suite – with the goal of increasing cross-chain interoperability. 

The product suite features projects including MetaMask, Infura, ConsenSys Quorum, Truffle, Codefi, and Diligence. MetaMask is the primary way a global user base of over 21 million monthly active users interact with applications on Web3. Over 350,000 developers use Infura to access Ethereum, IPFS and Layer 2 networks. In addition, 4.7 million developers create and deploy smart contracts using Truffle and ConsenSys Diligence has secured more than $25 billion in smart contracts with its hands-on dapp audits and testing tools. 

“We are thrilled to join forces with ConsenSys on our shared mission of empowering the Ethereum ecosystem and extending its economy,” said Alex Shevchenko, the CEO of Aurora Labs.

The partnership means ConsenSys will now have official participation in the ongoing development of the AuroraDAO. 

“We are excited to be partnering with the talented Aurora and NEAR protocol teams. Developer interest in EVM-compatible scaling solutions continues to grow at the same pace as the rapid expansion of the Web3 ecosystem, says E.G. Galano, Co-Founder and Head of Engineering at Infura.

“We believe developers will benefit from the addition of Aurora to the Infura product suite by enabling them to utilize the NEAR network with the EVM tooling they are already familiar with.”

Infura is directly involved in the AuroraDAO, which hands over key decision making to its community as a part of its vision to create a scaling solution that is as decentralized as possible.

About Aurora
Aurora is an EVM built on the NEAR Protocol, delivering a turn-key solution for developers to operate their apps on an Ethereum-compatible, high-throughput, scalable and future-safe platform, with low transaction costs for their users.
The State of Self Sovereign Identities
CASE STUDIES
September 30, 2019
What do we mean by identity?
Throughout our lives, we take on different identities. What we identify ourselves with ranges from the state identity provided at birth to the identities that we assign to ourselves and that are given to us by others. Depending on the communities that we interact with, we are inclined to tell different stories about yourself. The goal may either be to stand out and portray a unique individual or to blend in with the crowd. 

Trade-offs
In personal interactions, we can shift our attitude and character depending on the group we engage with. Thus, our counterparty will be able to recognize and respond with an adequate form of interaction. This form of selective disclosure of information is not possible in formal interactions, such as by the government-regulated entities, nor on social media. Users are forced into a split between providing all information and gaining access to a service or product, or refusing access and risking censorship, exclusion, or even becoming subject to state-enforced violence. As a result, personal credentials are scattered across platforms.

When signing up for a new service, the user has to decide between various trade-offs, one is to opt for usability over privacy, another one is the ease of use and the level of inclusion in one’s social circles. The less you know about someone, the harder it is to interact with that person. Similarly, no single entity has the need, nor should be given the right, to access all data that has been generated and gathered on a user. 

However, throughout the centralisation of social networks and user-centric services, access to those vast amounts of information has unrightfully been claimed and exploited.

Solution
The following section provides an overview of several projects that are working on alternatives to the problems mentioned above. In the most general form, solutions allow users to register and store their identity credentials. Depending on the entity that they are interacting with, the user can provide access to individual attributes that make up their identity. Imagine this to be similar to Facebook Sign-In, with the difference of you owning your data instead of Facebook. Being able to modify the set of information disclosed on every sign-on will allow users to shift and shape their identity in accordance with social situations. 

Digital Identities
We can differentiate between two broad types of identities, self-sovereign identities and centralised trusted identities. Self-sovereign identities allow users to own and control their identity without the need or influence of an external entity. In contrast, centralised trusted identities rely on a centralised body to provide and verify documentation. Both are designed for different use cases.

The following section provides an overview of three different digital identities, none of which utilise a blockchain. 

State-maintained digital identities
The first one being state-owned and maintained identities. If you have travelled abroad, purchased a car, or signed a rental agreement, the chances are high that you were in need of a passport or ID card. The main problem with formal documentation is that they require the establishment of an authority that is globally recognised. According to the World Bank, an estimated number of 1 Billion people do not have access to any documentation. To participate in daily activities, individuals have to rely on the trust of their community. Interpersonal trust is not only highly time-consuming to establish but also makes the participation in legal interactions, such as voting or buying a house, impossible.

Several European countries started developing, testing and implementing digital identities, intending to make government services more inclusive. The principle is that once citizens have access to a government-issued identity, they can reuse the credential for all digital services. The most established implementation is in Estonia. Estonia’s government provides an e-residency to all of its citizens. Once users have the government-issued ID card, they can access a wide range of online services, including health records, medical prescriptions, sign e-documents, and vote.

A similar implementation has been provided by u-Port throughout a pilot program in Zug, Switzerland. U-Port allows its users to register their identity and interact with the Ethereum blockchain. After enrolling with the city hall and u-Port, users have to go to the city hall to verify their identity. Once approved, users can interact with financial services.

Germany and other states are currently working on identity solutions that are based on the same principles. Resulting, those will all run into the same problem: Government-issued digital identities are dependent on the government to provide the necessary infrastructure. If this infrastructure is not available, the e-identity will not be of much use, resulting in the chicken and egg problem. 

Decentralised approaches
Self-sovereign identities rely on cryptographic solutions, such as the web of trust, to establish higher confidence in the information that users provide on a platform. The premise hereby is that a user has more credibility within a given system, the more people know him/her and approve of her/his identity. Note that the purpose is not to uniquely identify someone’s identity based on whom they claim to be, but instead based on who they are in relation to everybody else. 

If the only credential that is known in the system is a user’s public key, members of the system can sign-off each other’s public keys to build trust-relations. Depending on the implementation of the web of trust, users gain more trust from other users in the system, the more people that have signed-off their public key. The same mechanisms can be implemented in the form of a voting ring, whereby users have to become endorsed by those users, they verified prior. A user will only be trusted if (s)he is part of a cycle of trust. Blockchain-based implementations that rely on the web of trust are Sovrin and brightID. 

An alternative to the web of trust is to identify users based on what they have. Consensus solutions rely on a similar premise. To gain trust in the system, users have to provide value. In case they behave maliciously, the value provided will be taken away. Ultimately, the more value a user is willing to provide to the network, the less likely (s)he will want it to be slashed, and the more trustworthy the user will be.

An example of a non-blockchain-based system is Scuttlebutt. Scuttlebutt is a decentralised social network, in which users identify themselves with their public key, which is linked to the user’s device. All data that the user generates and collects from other users lives on the user’s machine. Resulting, the relationship between humans correlates to the relationship between computers. 

Moving forward
Currently, there is none “solve it all” solution for decentralised identities. Depending on the use case, different identity solutions will be utilised to generate, store and maintain the user’s identity. Blockchain will become most important in providing secure data storage of people’s credentials, whether a central authority issues those or approved by a network of users. Currently, people keep their most relevant information, such as health records, offline and linked to an analogue, state-issued ID. While the data can be lost, they can only be copied if someone gains physical access to the document. In contrast, any information that is kept on a centralised server will become vulnerable to unauthorised access if it has not been encrypted on the user-side by the user’s key. 

Utilising blockchain architecture can remove the need for all middlemen, while the control will remain with the user. This will not only lead to higher security if done right but also empower users to take ownership of their identity generation, maintenance and usage. Once creators don’t have to base their business model around the implementation of use-case-specific identities, unprecedented applications can emerge.

TLDR
We rely heavily on personal, organisation, and state-issued identities in our day to day life, often forcing us to compromise privacy for usability. While government-issued IDs rely on a trust-enhancing infrastructure, organisations collect and exploit user data in exchange for access to online services. 

Solutions are either based on self-sovereign identities or centralised trusted identities, with the common goal of empowering the user to hold and provide access to their personal information. If the infrastructure is in place, governments are working on ID-based e-identities. These employ centralised storage, providing a common attack vector. In contrast, decentralised identity solutions utilise the web of trust or unique value that an individual offers to the network. With this, identity is based on the trust people provide to each other depending on interactions. 

While several projects experiment with decentralised, user-owned identities, an application has yet to emerge that provides users with self-sovereignty, usability, and trust.

To follow our progress and learn how you can get involved, check out the following links:

Discord (http://near.chat/)
Beta Program (https://pages.near.org/beta/)
Rownd and NEAR Foundation are Cracking the Code of Web3 Onboarding
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 16, 2023
One of the main reasons that the NEAR ecosystem exists is to onboard the next billion users to Web3 — and that mission has just made significant strides by partnering with Rownd. An industry leader in digital onboarding and identity, Rownd’s passwordless authentication tech will utilize NEAR for more seamless interaction and onboarding for both Web3 and Web2.

Brands and businesses use Rownd to take users from landing pages to downloading apps while ensuring a streamlined registration process across platforms, websites, and mobile apps. 

Now, companies that use Rownd can integrate NEAR apps into their mobile and desktop experiences, while still maintaining privacy and security via passwordless authentication.

Addressing the persistent digital onboarding problem
Engaging and retaining users is still a major challenge. A clear symptom of this problem is that only 2% of site visitors complete sign-up processes of all sorts. A whopping 60% leave during the sign-up stage itself. This high attrition rate can have a severe impact on customer acquisition and revenue generation efforts.

Rownd directly confronts this problem, bringing to the table its innovative onboarding and authentication solutions. These are far from one-size-fits-all solutions. Rownd dynamically allows platforms to tailor the authentication and profile creation process to meet the specific needs and preferences of their users.

This customization reduces friction and drop-off rates, improving user experience and making the process more appealing. When onboarding is user-centric and straightforward, it leads to higher conversion rates, ultimately benefiting both the user and the platform. Rownd doesn’t just address not a functional need but also builds trust and credibility amongst users.

Rownd’s digital onboarding solution on NEAR
Rownd’s solution is both elegant and robust. It employs compact code snippets and software development kits (SDKs) to create a network of interconnected digital platforms — from websites and blogs to landing pages and apps. This strategic platform unification consolidates user data into a single, comprehensive profile, which translates into a smooth cross-platform experience.

Rownd goes a step further with adaptive sign-up. Rownd’s SDKs do not require hard coding design and authentication methods for apps and websites.  Rather, they are set in the platform. This allows developers and non-developers alike to dynamically change sign-in methods, branding, and where authentication occurs without editing code.

Rownd also has a Web3 integration strategy, making it easier for users to navigate the often complex and intimidating world of crypto and Web3. They offer user-friendly custodial wallets for those new to the crypto space, while simultaneously allowing crypto-savvy users to link their existing wallets with minimal hassle. 

This balanced approach ensures that Rownd’s onboarding solution is inclusive, comprehensive, and future-ready.

NEAR Foundation and Rownd: the future of Web3 onboarding
NEAR Foundation’s partnership with Rownd greatly expands the potential of the company

‘s advanced authentication and onboarding solutions. Rownd’s NEAR integration allows app developers to add a NEAR account/wallet to a new user in seconds.  This collaboration paves the way for faster adoption of Web3 technology in a secure, scalable, and decentralized environment. Brands and businesses will benefit from increased conversions and engagement of Web3 veterans and novices alike.

Together, Rownd and the NEAR Foundation demonstrate the transformative potential of integrating state-of-the-art onboarding and passwordless authentication with the revolutionary Web3. By crafting a user-centric onboarding experience, they are making significant strides toward broadening the use of Web3 applications, marking a new era for digital experiences.
公链 2020 ：Near Protocol 驶向Open Web之路
COMMUNITY
February 19, 2020
“Into the Open Web”, China Community AMA.
Conducted by NEAR Protocol Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin and China Lead Amos Zhang. 
 

1、你是如何进入区块链行业又做了NEAR公链的？

Hi Illia! How did you enter the blockchain space and come up with the idea of Near Protocol?

@illia:

Alex and I previously had been working on an AI company NEAR.ai. Though we were doing cutting edge research in the field of program synthesis (automating software engineering), we were lacking real data and real users. As part of our work, we built a crowdsourcing platform that would employ engineers across the world to solve programming tasks to allow us to train better models.

We faced multiple issues, starting from payment across the world to the fact that we couldn’t ourselves provide it [the platform] with enough tasks. We started to look at how to make this platform into a marketplace and blockchain seemed like a perfect platform for this.

Alex comes from the background of building sharded databases at MemSQL, and I worked at Google Research on large distributed machine learning systems – we went down the rabbit hole of learning about blockchain, consensus and generally surrounding technologies. As we were learning, we stumbled upon the fact that we didn’t find a fitting solution that we would be able to use. Both from a technology standpoint, and even more importantly, from a usability standpoint. 

We had a chat with some of our friends from MemSQL and Google on July 4th and realized that in that room we had great systems engineers who are all excited about the technology and also have experience building distributed systems. 

Thus NEAR Protocol was born; we grew the team from the 3 people we had at NEAR.ai to 9 people over a week. Now we have 30+ ppl all over the world.

 

2、NEAR的分片设计是什么样的，和目前已有的分片方案有什么不同？

What is NEAR’s sharding solution, and how will NEAR differentiate with other sharding solutions?

@illia:

First and foremost NEAR is a developer platform. Meaning that we are focused on delivering the best experience for developers to build applications without limiting the types of experience they can build for their users.

This means that we really focused on tooling, APIs, common programming languages and making things really easy to develop. Second, we focused on allowing a common non-crypto user to easily start using applications built on NEAR – you don’t need to have tokens, wallets or prior knowledge of private/public keys to start using things.

Sharding and scalability are emerging as the outcome of this – blockchain should not be blocking developers or users from using applications. Hence there should not be limitations on the infrastructure layer. 

Our sharding is designed to be hidden from the developer. For example, instead of shard chains we shard blocks. This means that developers do not have to be concerned with the shard they are on nor with other applications on that shard and the gas prices among shards. Instead, developers have the convenience of interacting with the NEAR network as they do with a single blockchain now. To achieve that, we have designed a novel sharding approach called Nightshade, you can read more about it https://near.ai/nightshade or check out this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4CKvfYJTjxk.

中文版：https://blog.csdn.net/sun_dsk1/article/details/102763593

还有github版 https://github.com/marco-sundsk/NEAR_DOC_zhcn/blob/master/whitepaper/nightshade_cn.md

Additionally, economics is extremely important for any chain, and in sharded or multi-chain setups this becomes even more crucial. We have successfully made strides to both hide complexity and solve some of the burning needs of developers – https://near.ai/economics.

中文版https://blog.csdn.net/sun_dsk1/article/details/102763595

 

3、你认为分片带来的最大的可用性挑战是什么，NEAR打算如何应对？

What are the biggest usability challenges due to sharding, and how do you plan to address them ？

@illia:

The biggest challenge for developers building on sharded blockchains compared to blockchains like Ethereum is the fact that cross-contract calls become asynchronous. When in Ethereum we send transactions – if something fails mid-way through its execution across many contracts, the system will revert all the changes.

This is highly unscalable in nature. And if we look at any distributed system used in Web2, we see that everything is operating asynchronously. You might have seen the DevCon commentary by James Prestwich about how this would hurt the experience and composability.

There are a few things we are doing to address this:

Nightshade design makes cross-shard communication to be reliable and execute at the next block produced by the network. Because of this, we removed the need for developers to care when they are calling another contract if it’s in the same shard or not. All cross contract calls get executed in the same block, even if routing across shards have happened.
Because different contracts might have different usage, it also means different shards might get more or fewer transactions. Dynamic resharding is done every epoch to rebalance the contracts and accounts between shards, and sometimes even change the number of shards, to keep usage of each shard relatively even.
Economic design (https://near.ai/economics) targets to provide predictable fees for developers and users. That is one of the problems of auction-based systems, that Bitcoin and Ethereum have that the pricing for transactions might be changing dramatically within a short period of time. In NEAR, price is predictably changing from block to block depending on the network usage, which allows developers and users to understand how much will operations cost. Additionally, price is the same across all shards, removing the need for developers to manage that as well.
Because all cross contract calls are executed in the next block, they are done asynchronously. This is different from the Ethereum model, where calling another contract would be synchronous and return results back into your function. To add developers’ ability to operate with it, we have built a promises API that also supports callbacks. We have SDK for Rust and AssemblyScript (TypeScript compiler) that provide API similar to futures in respective libraries. Developers who are familiar with asynchronous programming will be able to pick it up relatively easily. For example, we had a workshop where people not familiar with our tech stack managed to implement a Map-Reduce job across shards.
Additional tooling is added to make locking safe in a blockchain environment. This is required based compared to a normal state where your program/service is only run by authorized other services, in blockchain anyone can call your contract. This locking mechanics allows developers to write contracts that lock parts of the state within a sequence of cross-contract asynchronous calls and be sure that this lock will be released when the sequence (transaction) will finish. This allows building complex sets of contracts, that operate in a similar way as on Ethereum, propagating errors or reverting changes to the state of other contracts.
 

4、NEAR为什么要过渡到PoST？纯PoS有什么问题呢？如何实现呢？

Why are you transitioning to PoST? What’s wrong with pure PoS? And how will you make it happen?

@illia:

PoST is currently still in research. We have identified a few core issues with PoS, some of which are described in this video – https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XiJI7EhNsmc&list=PL9tzQn_TEuFW_t9QDzlQJZpEQnhcZte2y.

One of the core problems in Proof of Stake is long-range attacks. The general agreement is to require a weak subjectivity assumption (https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/11/25/proof-stake-learned-love-weak-subjectivity/). Another problem is that most consensus algorithms that are built on top of Proof of Stake require a specific set of validators to be elected per period of time and that set of validators needs to be online to select the next set.

These problems are what PoW has a much better answer. Trading for huge energy consumption, variance in the reward which leads to pooling and centralization and increased block times/latency due to requiring block propagation across the network.

PoST addresses these issues as well as makes the “mining” of space proofs fairer as it doesn’t require specialized hardware and cheap electricity to participate.

We are not planning to have any PoST work in the upcoming MainNet. This will be a research and development post MainNet and will be presented to the community to decide if it’s worth upgrading into it.

 

5、这次NEAR中国行活动主题是：「区块链技术在政府和企业中的应用」，NEAR在企业应用上的解决方案有哪些优势？

We know the theme of the Near China tour is [Blockchain adoption in enterprise and government]. In China, many companies offer permitted chain solutions. What are the advantages of NEAR’s blockchain solutions to Blockchain and to Government?

What are the possible applications for NEAR technology for businesses and enterprises?

@illia:

What NEAR’s design provides at its core is cross contract communication when contracts are not operating under the same chain. This is important for sharding public chains, but it also allows for enterprise use cases where a business can run their own shard. We call this Private Shard. 

In systems like Hyperledger or Corda, you would need to set up a set of participants, get them to agree to share all of the data and contracts they put into this chain. The benefit of Private Shard is that it doesn’t require setting up consortia or any upfront investment. It’s also easy to set which other Private Shards can access what data and contracts from a given company or if this company wants others to participate in the same shard later.

Private Shard is also simple for businesses to grasp because for them it’s a SaaS model, where business can spin up their own Private Shard in their private cloud or data center and start using it as a backend for their applications. The benefits are that these applications have general namespace across the whole universe and can communicate with both public blockchain applications and with other private shards. When another business B wants to interact with business A, given shared global namespace of contracts and checked in proofs of the state into the public – they can easily call into contracts of business A. 

There are lots of benefits, starting from managing public assets (like digital real estate or monetary value) to the ability to easily grow the network of applications across different enterprises that can rely on the common protocol to communicate.

 

6、NEAR称使用开发模版的话 15 分钟就可以基于平台开发一个 APP，并即时发布，对开发者十分友好。可以具体介绍一下开发者如何参与到NEAR生态做App，一龙有没有什么想法可以启发大家？

How can a developer take advantage of the NEAR platform to make some tools and DApps?

And Illia, would you like to share some ideas to inspire our developers?

@illia:

We have quite a few tools for developers:

Online IDE to quickly start building: https://near.dev
Documentation: https://docs.nearprotocol.com
Rust bindings that also have examples of few contracts: https://github.com/nearprotocol/near-bindgen/tree/master/examples
Nearlib is JS SDK that allows to build easy frontends / integrate with blockchain – https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearlib
Example NFT for Corgis – https://github.com/nearprotocol/crypto-corgis-solution
We have a live online hackathon for Chinese developers and have published some ideas here: https://github.com/nearprotocol/hackathon/blob/master/ideas.md

 

7、是否可以回顾总结2019年NEAR的项目进展结果，再简单陈述在2020年NEAR有哪些计划？

What is your review on NEAR 2019, and what are the exciting plans of NEAR 2020?

@illia:

In 2019 NEAR:

Went from a small team in San Francisco, to the global community. 
Had changed our sharding design and implemented it, running pre-release TestNet with external validators around the globe. 
Onboarded first batch of application developers who are building exciting apps on NEAR and going to launch with us at MainNet. Helped some of them to raise money and scale up to deliver good experience day 1.
Had tons of meetups, workshops and 8 hackathons around the world, with developers giving us valuable feedback on how to improve the platform.
For 2020 our first and foremost goal is to launch MainNet and start growing Open Web community.

We believe that there are a ton of opportunities to bring new developers and entrepreneurs to build the next wave of businesses that are more aligned with users and that we can power part of this transition with NEAR.

We really think 2020 will be the year of growth – developers in the ecosystem, applications launched, usage by regular consumers and adoption by big companies.

 

8.一龙说2020 会是The year of Open Web，这个预测的依据是什么，能谈谈你理解的OpenWeb吗？

Illia has said 2020 will be the year of Open Web. Could you explain this? How do you think of Open Web?

@illia:

Open Web is the new paradigm of businesses and applications which are aligned around users. 

Currently the incentives in Web2 are to build moats and maximizing revenue even against users benefit. The goal of Open Web is to bring control back to the user: for their money, assets and data.

We already have movements across the globe that starting in this direction, with GDPR and data portability laws, promoting privacy and self sovereignty – all of it is trying to change the status quo. But until now there were real alternatives to the centralizing power of zero marginal costs in web2.

An example of this is any social network. They all start trying to acquire users and really being open to applications being built on it and serving the smaller groups need. But as the network effect compounds, the value of playing nice disappears and instead it becomes more about acquisition of competition before it becomes too big and growing revenue.

A way to turn it around is to commoditize the social graph itself. Both make it user owned instead of a company that provides software, and make it portable and usable across any applications. This removes the moat around user’s data or friends and instead will force companies to build better products and serve their needs to more attuned. This also means that there is room for more niche applications that can leverage this data to provide good experience for small community or social group, which right now is impossible because no local app would gather enough network and no global app would focus on building something for small local community.

Even enterprises as they accept more blockchain technology will participate in this movement, unlocking user’s data and allowing more interoperability.

We think in 2020 we will start seeing first applications that deliver on this promise and see long term alignment of applications and users.
NEAR & Gaming: How Web3 is Disrupting Gaming
COMMUNITY
August 11, 2022
The world of gaming is undergoing a radical shift thanks to cryptocurrency and Web3 technologies. Traditional top-down, centralized Web2 models of gaming are being challenged left and right. Community-operated games, new economic structures like play-to-earn, and other developments benefiting both players and indie game developers alike are just the beginning.

“A lot of smaller, independent game developers are restricted in Web2,” says Chase Freo, founder of OP Games, a native crypto gaming platform. “They simply don’t have the money to hit number one in the App or Google Play stores. But crypto and Web3 are changing all that. We’re eliminating gatekeepers and changing the way both developers and players participate in gaming.”

And while decentralization is a key part of how Web3 is disrupting the gaming industry, there’s much more to the story than that. Game development can be community managed and co-created via decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs). Radical new economic and financial models within games are emerging daily. Global brands even realize that they need to become involved with crypto gaming in some way.

In Part 3 of the “NEAR & Gaming” series, we’re exploring a few ways that Web3’s unique set of tools and infrastructure are disrupting the status quo. And why the NEAR ecosystem is at the forefront of this massive sea change.

Enabling composable fandom in eSports
The rise of eSports and competitive gaming has been a major industry trend in recent years. In many ways it lends itself perfectly to decentralization, cryptocurrencies, and Web3 technologies. In particular, digital collectibles and NFTs represent a significant opportunity to bring fans, creators, and brands closer to eSports teams and competitors.

“The industry now has tools to create digital collectibles as a medium for fan engagement,” explains Bridge Craven, CEO of ARterra Labs. “This can span a broad spectrum of use cases, like a utility NFT that grants fans tickets to a tournament or certain access to their favorite player through special Twitch emotes or Discord channels.”

ARterra is a Web3 fan engagement infrastructure platform for the eSports and gaming market. A major part of Craven’s vision is to make Web3 a user-friendly entry point for gamers, fans, and collectors, with win-win economic incentives for all parties involved.

“We chose NEAR because of the benefits in terms of scalability and user experience,” Craven continues. “We subsidize gas costs and are the custodian of the users’ private keys, so people don’t need to worry about the crypto interaction.”

Craven explains that Web3 is leading towards what he calls Composable Fandom. The idea that Web3 facilitates more interactive, long-lasting, and flexible ways for fans to interact with their favorite gamers, eSports teams, and even brands.

“Ownership is something that’s been missing from gaming, whether it’s in-game assets or something that travels with you like a passport,” Craven says. “But with NFTs and Web3, players have more opportunities to make a living, and fans can own their assets, and their fandom.”

Mobile taking blockchain gaming mainstream
Gaming is also onboarding more users into Web3 through mobile devices, and vice versa. So far, most successful Web3 games have been browser-based, while Web2 corporations and gaming studios continue to dominate mobile. 

But this model is changing. And PlayEmber, a Web3 gaming platform focused on the mobile market, is helping to lead the charge. PlayEmber’s Web3 software development kit (SDK), combined with a native NEAR wallet, is reshaping the Web3 mobile gaming landscape for developers and players alike.

“Everyone is talking about blockchain gaming, which is great. But if you look at GameFi 1.0, for example, it was all desktop,” observes Jon Hook, advisor, and CMO at PlayEmber. “But nobody was really talking about bringing blockchain gaming to mobile. So we thought, why not use blockchain to make the games people love to play even more fun?”

Hugo Furn, founder PlayEmber, adds that once Web3 gaming focuses more on building experiences that are as fun as Web2, the blockchain industry will finally crack the code for bringing blockchain gaming to the masses.

“We already know that NEAR is going to be this amazing on-ramp,” Furn says. “But instead of starting with things like tokenomics or yield farming mechanisms, we’re helping developers keep the mobile gaming experience at the center of what they do, then incorporate in-game tokens or NFTs to boost what players can do.”

Both Hook and Furn envision a future where mobile blockchain gaming—powered by PlayEmber’s SDK and NEAR on the backend—makes blockchain gaming as seamless and accessible as Web2. The games will not only be fun but based on a decentralized economic model that provides greater benefits to gamers of all stripes.

“You could play a mobile game and earn NFTs to sell on an open marketplace, for example,” Hook predicts. “Or if brands partner with games, you could redeem those tokens for a free coffee or flight upgrade. Mobile is critical to making blockchain games as popular as the ones featured at events like E3 and Comic Con.”

Building a resourceful, collaborative metaverse
While the seeds of what we now know as the blockchain-enabled metaverse were sown in Web2, new advancements, projects, and thought leaders are taking the metaverse to the next level. Atlantis World is one such project, aiming to build a more social, accessible metaverse for gaming, productivity, and whatever uses that inhabitants can dream up.

“At Atlantis World, we’re building a more resourceful metaverse,” explains Rev Miller, founder of Atlantis World. “And what I mean by that is connecting things like audio, video, text chats, and conferencing into a lightweight metaverse experience that can be completely stored on a thumb drive.”

Miller sees Atlantis World as an intersection between a metaverse gaming experience and a platform where people can create their own customizable virtual spaces. 

“We see Atlantis World as kind of a Layer Zero for the metaverse,” Miller continues. “We want to enable users to find their own creative ways to engage and solve problems. For instance, we’re planning to integrate AstroDAO into Atlantis World to potentially help solve governance challenges. DAOs will be able to meet, discuss, and vote entirely in the metaverse to hopefully increase engagement and voter turnout.”

Atlantis World represents an important shift in the metaverse from Web2 to Web3, and even current ways in which the blockchain metaverse functions. 

“We want to make it easier for users by providing them with no-code tooling and enabling them to build spaces on their own,” says Miller. “At the same time, we want to challenge the current notion of metaverse lands. It doesn’t make sense to have scarce resources and limited plots, so we want Atlantis World to be flexible and expansive in that respect.”

Enhancing gaming’s economic incentives 
In Web2, economic activity and incentives are typically a one-way street: game studios and companies monetize players and users. Web3 has the potential to upend this model by making economic interactions and incentives fairer. Current Web3 projects on NEAR are already demonstrating how this will take place.

“We want to allow both players and developers to participate in the economic incentives that Web3 provides,” says Chase Freo of OP Games. “Imagine yourself as a player who walks into an arcade, except the games aren’t owned by a company or the arcade owner. They’re owned and operated by the developers themselves. That’s the gap we’re bridging.”

At OP Games, Web2 native gaming developers can easily migrate to Web3 with an SDK that features what Freo calls “Lego Blocks”—modular components for building and operating blockchain-based games. Those games can then be placed on the Arcadia platform, which is primarily for consumers. There are over 4,000 games, primarily tournament-based, which players can join based on their individual skill level. Players can participate in tournaments, NFT wagering, and other gaming activities that reward participation rather than simply taking their money to play.

“Another thing we’re working on is what we call NFT sharding for games,” Freo continues. “It’ll be the ability for game developers to transform their entire games into an NFT, fractionalize it, and sell those multiple pieces to the community. So then the community, along with the developers, run the game together as an enterprise.”

Freo adds that this community-owned and driven model for Web3 games will completely disrupt the economic models that gaming has traditionally existed under. This will move closer to becoming a reality as blockchain gaming experiences match what players are accustomed to from Web2 apps.

“Games don’t necessarily have to be fun, per se, but they need to evoke emotions. Games that are scary, keep you up at night or test your morality,” Freo says. “These are the types of things that keep players coming back for more, and I think that we need more of in the Web3 space.”

The dawn of Web3 gaming disruption 
Last year’s newsworthy boom in blockchain gaming and the metaverse was just the beginning of how Web3 is changing the gaming industry—hopefully for the better. Fans of eSports can get closer to their favorite stars and own collectibles with real-world utility and value. Mobile gaming on the blockchain promises to reward users more, instead of simply extracting time and attention.

The metaverse also promises to become more open, lightweight, and collaborative if projects like Atlantis World are any indication of what’s to come. But most importantly, economic models and incentives around the interaction between creators and players are ripe for disruption. 

In Web3, players will have a bigger voice in allocating in-game resources and how their overall world exists. And developers will be empowered more creatively and economically in terms of the games, worlds, and experiences they create. 
Cosmose AI Harnesses the Open Web and NEAR with KAIKAINOW
COMMUNITY
September 13, 2023
Cosmose AI, the global platform that uses AI to predict and influence how people shop offline is launching a new piece of technology designed to disrupt the smartphone lock screen experience. 

Called KAIKAINOW, it brings together artificial intelligence and blockchain to help users stay informed and engaged with the world around them without the hassle of unlocking their phones. 

KAIKAINOW, an opt-in technology, sits on a user’s home screen. It offers a variety of curated content, including news, language learning, games, and trending stories which would be interspersed between users’ very own personal wallpaper pictures.

“We check our smartphone lock screens on average 80 times a day, always seeing the same  wallpaper backdrop. Imagine, instead of seeing the same image over and over again you see it every other time, while enjoying personalized content during remaining interactions,” says Miron Mironiuk, Founder and CEO of Cosmose AI. 

KAIKAINOW changes that by harnessing cutting edge AI technology, and pairing it with open web tools found on the NEAR blockchain to ensure the experience is tailored to the user while always adhering to the highest privacy standards.

“The launch of KAIKAINOW by COSMOSE AI shows how far we’ve come in respects to transforming Web3 from an innovative idea to a something that can deliver real world benefits to consumers, while also helping foster brand loyalty and business growth in the retail space,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. 

“We are thrilled to align ourselves with such a fantastic, rapidly growing tech firm such as Cosmose AI and look forward to seeing how it will truly transform the world of retail and get the world closer to Web3 mass adoption.”

 

Blockchain meets AI 
Publishers and brands provide the content and KAIKAINOW enhances the experience by allowing users to unlock rewards via KAI-CHING, a native token pegged to the US Dollar built on the NEAR Protocol. These tokens can then be used to access exclusive offers only available to KAIKAINOW users. 

Thanks to KAI-CHING, shoppers and retailers benefit from shorter payment processing time and significantly lower fees.

By building both consumer products and its token on NEAR protocol, Cosmose AI is accelerating its Web3 offerings with one of the world’s leading, open source blockchain platforms and further advancing the AI-driven retail ecosystem.

To date, Cosmose AI has served over 20 million stores and reached one billion phones globally. The integration of NEAR technologies means that Cosmose can ensure that users maintain complete control over their data and benefit from the ecosystem they help create. This approach ensures the highest level of privacy for users and aligns with the Company’s commitment to user safety.

Blockchain’s digital record, paired with NEAR’s open web tooling, means AI services can help improve trust in data integrity and, by extension, in the recommendations that AI provides. Using blockchain to store and distribute AI models provides an audit trail, and pairing blockchain and AI can enhance data security. 

NEAR is helping partners like Cosmose AI harness these tools to create better products that serve customers and partners equally. 
NEARCON ‘23 Day Three: Shaping the Future of Decentralized Governance
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 10, 2023
NEARCON ’23’s grand finale is here, packed with groundbreaking sessions you won’t want to miss. It’s been a great ride so far, with engaging sessions, a mind-blowing hackathon, and the chance to network in person with open web experts from all over the globe. Today’s agenda has some of the most impactful talks yet, so get ready to send NEARCON ‘23 out with a bang!

Start with a coffee at 9:00 AM and enjoy breakfast at the venue with other attendees before diving into our final day of immersive sessions. By 10:45 AM, the curtain will lift on the main stage for NEARCON 23’s final foray into Web3 — including a special, surprise announcement from NEAR CEO Illia Polosukhin.
Remember, you can stay connected throughout the day on Calimero Chat — a private, decentralized comms built on the NEAR blockchain.
*Note: There is no bag check or cloak room at any NEARCON venue. 

Can’t miss sessions on Day Three
What 2024 Looks Like for Decentralized Democracy (1:00 PM – 1:30 PM, Layer 1 Stage).

Join us for a deep dive into the future of governance on NEAR, where the visionaries behind NEAR’s political framework dissect past triumphs and unfold the master plan for 2024. Hear from our panelists, including Joe Spano of ShardDog and Blaze from Cheddar.

Special Announcement (12:00 PM – 12:30 PM, Layer 1 Stage). Don’t miss NEAR Co-founder and NEAR Foundation CEO Illia Polosukhin’s major announcement. When Illia speaks, the entire Web3 world listens, so grab a quick bite and head on over to the main stage for what’s sure to be Illia’s mic-drop moment of NEARCON ‘23.

NEAR Governance Forum (11:05 AM – 12:00 PM, Layer 2 Stage). Curious about NEAR’s decentralized governance model? Get your questions answered by Alejandro Betancourt of the Transparency Commission and Cameron Dennis of Banyan Collective, with the conversation facilitated by Gus Friis of NEARWEEK.

NEAR Campus: Unleashing the Potential of University Partnerships for DevHub (11:00 AM – 11:20 AM). NEAR DevHub’s Boris Polania will showcase the NEAR Campus’s role in revolutionizing developer engagement. Explore the relationship between NEAR and academia, and how NEAR Campus will serve as a touchpoint for global campuses in the future.

Sensational speaker highlights
Unveiling the Web3 BUILD Incubator Fellowship (11:20 AM – 11:30 AM, Block Zero Stage)

Max Mizzi from Major League Hacking will introduce the BUILD Incubator Fellowship, an innovative collaboration with NEAR Horizon. Discover the inception, operation, and success stories of the program’s trailblazing summer cohort.

It’s Honest Work: How DeFi Is Growing Up (11:30 AM – 12:00 PM, Layer 1 Stage),

From ‘DeFi Summer’ to today, decentralized finance remains one of the most promising areas of crypto — and it’s inevitably maturing. Drop by as an incredible panel included Arjun Arora from Orderly Network, Mike Cahill of Douro Labs, and more chart recent developments that are reshaping DeFi’s landscape on NEAR and beyond.

Aurora Unleashed: Igniting NEAR’s Potential (11:15 AM – 11:30 AM, Layer 1 Stage).

Alex Shevchenko of Aurora Labs takes the spotlight to discuss Aurora’s impactful innovations within the NEAR ecosystem. Expect insights into Aurora’s network developments, Borealis infrastructure, and their cross-contract call SDK, all of which amplify NEAR’s technological prowess.

IRL Hackathon grand finale and LX Factory party
Judgment day is finally here, as winners of the IRL Hackathon will claim their awards on the Main Stage from 2:35 PM – 3:50 PM. Huge thanks to all who participated and submitted projects. Every hacker, coder, builder, and developer is what makes the NEAR ecosystem special and the NEAR Foundation looks forward to engaging each and every one in the future.

Finally, NEARCON ‘23 is going out with a major bang at one of the most iconic Lisbon party venues — LX Factory. An epic bash brought to you by The Littles, it’s a going away soiree that every NEARCON ‘23 attendee simply can’t miss. Grab a drink, do some networking, and groove your night away as NEARCON ‘23 sails off into the Portuguese sunset. 

A few important reminders
Here are today’s venue hours:

Armazem (Hacker HQ) closes at 12:30 PM.
Garagem (Community HQ) closes at 5:30 immediately after the happy hour.
Convento Do Beato Layer 2 Stage closes at 12:00 PM. The Layer 1 Stage and venue closes at 4:00 PM.
Closing party at LX Factory (Fábrica) from 9:00 PM – 4:00 AM. Open to badge holders.
Shoutout to Day Three sponsors
Of course, this epic Day Three wouldn’t be possible without the support of todays’ generous and amazing sponsors:

The Littles
SailGP
Day Three will be all about forging connections, gaining insights, and celebrating all that you and the collective NEAR ecosystem has accomplished not only over the past three days – but the entirety of 2023. So grab a coffee, head on over to the venue, and let’s make the final day of NEARCON ‘23 count towards making this the most iconic edition ever.


NEARCON ’23 Unwrapped: Lisbon Steps into the Open Web in Iconic Fashion
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 16, 2023
Over the course of three epic days, the NEAR ecosystem showed up and showed out to make NEARCON ‘23 the most iconic edition yet. Groundbreaking partnerships were announced, new bonds forged, and a new vision for AI and the open web was unveiled by some of the brightest minds in the blockchain business.

“The open web is an internet where all people control their own assets, data, and power of governance,” remarked NEAR co-founder and newly minted CEO of NEAR Foundation, Illia Polosukhin, on Day One of NEARCON ‘23. “And that vision extends beyond NEAR to the entire space, with the B.O.S. acting as the single entry point to an open web.” 

Illia’s remarks truly encapsulated the spirit of NEARCON ‘23, as innovative collaborations with the likes of Polygon and EigenLayer highlighted a cross-chain, multi-ecosystem future with NEAR enabling multiple key facets of tomorrow’s truly open web. 

So ICYMI, here’s all the key happenings, hubbub, and highpoints of an iconic NEARCON ‘23.

Partnerships, IRL Hackathon, and NCON make a splash
Things started off with a bang before the doors of the Convento Do Beato in Lisbon even opened, with the debut of the NCON token. The first ever native NEARCON token, attendees could download the NEARCON app and collect NCON tokens by completing tasks, bounties, and viewing sessions throughout the event.

NEARCON-goers could then redeem NCON tokens for swag or a bite from the various food trucks, or even send NCON to other attendees via a slick native wallet on the NEARCON app. All told, over 110,000 NCON tokens were distributed during the event, making it a smash hit amongst attendees.

This year’s NEARCON also took place across three cool and contrasting venues: NEARCON HQ, Hacker HQ, and Community HQ, each providing a unique experience for those of varying interests. HackerHQ was popping in particular due to the three day IRL Hackathon. Held in a stunning seaview venue, the winners will be announced next week, so stay tuned.

Once everyone settled in for Day One, the ecosystem was treated to a few major game-changing partnership announcements. Here’s a roundup of the major collabs that are already making an impact for NEAR builders, developers, and the community at large:

NEAR releases the Data Availability Layer for ETH Rollups and Ethereum developers

By far the biggest news of Day One was NEAR unveiling the NEAR Data Availability Layer (NEAR DA), offering robust, low-cost blockchain data to developers for modular open web development. NEAR DA will help developers reduce costs and enhance the reliability of rollups, while keeping the security of Ethereum. NEAR DA is a key part of tomorrow’s open web development stack, with early users including StarkNet, Caldera, Movement Labs, and others. 

NEAR x EigenLayer streamline Ethereum
NEAR Foundation announced its partnership with EigenLayer, which will speed  up transaction times and slashing costs on the Ethereum blockchain. The collaboration will introduce a fast finality layer to Ethereum rollups, boosting their efficiency and scalability. The fast finality layer showcases the strengths of NEAR’s technology while making the open web more usable.

LayerZero brings interoperability to NEAR
In other big news, LayerZero integrated with NEAR, bringing over 40 blockchain networks into the open web. Layer brings trustless cross-chain messaging into the fold, making NEAR a more versatile ecosystem. The announcement highlighted NEAR’s commitment to seamless communication across various blockchain networks.

Day One highlights: bringing the open web vision to life
While there were a ton of amazing sessions and panels on the first day — from open web gaming and sports to crypto economics — one of the major themes was how Illia would realize his vision for a truly open internet in his new role as CEO of the NEAR Foundation. With a renewed focus on developers in the ecosystem, it only makes sense for him to steer the ship.

Piggybacking on Illia’s “NEAR: The Open Web Vision” keynote, new NEAR COO Chris Donovan made a case for the open web, while also sitting down to discuss Web3 regulatory issues with Coindesk’s Michael Casey. And in other developer tooling news, NEAR Data Availability (DA) was announced, giving developers low-cost access to modular, scalable blockchain data.

Day Two highlights: the AI is NEAR track takes flight
The second day of NEARCON ‘23 was perhaps the boldest to date, with an epic “AI is NEAR” speaker and programming track that was simply mind blowing. Things kicked off with sessions featuring thought leaders from the likes of Pantera Capital and NEAR Tasks, and heated up even more with NEAR co-founder Alex Skidanov’s talk on generative AI and the open web.

Illia returned in the afternoon to discuss “AI on NEAR: The Future of Work and Governance,” painting a picture of how AI will impact the future of governance, work, asset ownership, and beyond. He was then joined by Mike Butcher of TechCrunch, with the two unpacking the intersection of AI, blockchain, and global policy.

“AI has the potential to be a huge driver for productivity,” Illia explained. “AI agents, for example,  are redefining the future of work. They have the unique ability to manage transactions and resources on blockchain platforms, communicate with secure cryptographic verification, and act as autonomous entities on people’s behalf — and directly for their benefit.”

The AI is NEAR track was capped off when Illia then joined Michael Casey for a Coindesk podcast, where the two dove as deep as one can imagine down the AI rabbit hole. In particular, Illia shared his experience, views, and predictions regarding AI, blockchain, and the open web – simply a must listen. (Stay tuned for the release of this Coindesk podcast with Illia and Michael.)

Day Three highlights: governance and hackathon on stage
Governance and current happenings with the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) were front and center in a spirited Day Three. One of the most unique panels was the NEAR Governance Forum, featuring AVB from the Transparency Committee, Cameron Dennis from Banyan, and Blaze of Cheddar.

All three gave their takes on what’s gone right — and wrong — with the NDC since its inception at last year’s NEARCON. And in a “Round Robin” format, the three fielded a variety of questions from the audience, some of whom were NDC members themselves. Blaze and AVB then joined NEAR’s Yadira Blocker in an afternoon session discussing Decentralized Democracy in 2024.

The final season of NEARCON ‘23 featured presentations from the IRL Hackathon, where builders unveiled their work and ideas. Judges and panelists included Oleg Fomenko, CEO of Sweat Economy, with talented NEAR builders putting their best foot forward. They showcased some truly amazing ideas and tech, so you’ll want to keep your eyes peeled for the winners.

And what’s Day Three of any NEARCON without a party? This year’s bash was held at the LX Factory, an enormous space where all attendees got their final chance to network, share ideas, and have a blast. The Littles sponsored the party, bringing an added element of excitement by setting up carnival games at the venue along with The Fun Pass to reward anyone who played.

NEARCON ‘23: as iconic as it gets
If you joined us in Lisbon, a huge thanks for making this year’s edition so fun, spectacular, and rewarding. If you weren’t able to attend, we sincerely hope to see you next year. From transformative partnerships to leading the Web3 pack in AI, NEARCON ‘23 showcased the passion, momentum, and ingenuity of the entire NEAR ecosystem.

If you weren’t able to make it to Lisbon for NEARCON, don’t worry — you can still check out all of the talks. Visit NEAR Protocol’s YouTube page for the full livestreams from the Layer 1 and Layer 2 stages, or click the links below. 

NEARCON Day One Livestream  – Layer 1 Stage, Layer 2 Stage
NEARCON Day Two Livestream – Layer 1 Stage, Layer 2 Stage
NEARCON Day Three Livestream  – Layer 1 Stage, Layer 2 Stage
Anyone who built furiously at the HackerHQ or clinked a cocktail at the Glass Movers & Shakers Happy Hour will likely tell you something similar: that NEARCON ‘23 showed the importance of a truly open web — and how together we can all achieve it.
NEAR’s Private Shard: Infrastructure for Enterprise, Built on the Open Web
DEVELOPERS
September 29, 2021
For business, privacy is important. Whether it be the transfer of confidential information to partners, or protecting customers’ data. Blockchain has privacy baked into its DNA. But attempts at bringing enterprise and blockchain together have struggled. 

Historically, businesses approached the ground-breaking technology by adopting the consortium model. Company A would invite its partners or companies in the same ecosystem to build a blockchain. But almost as soon as these consortiums started, they ran into issues. 

Privacy is baked into blockchain’s DNA, but businesses have struggled to harness its potential.

Concerns around control and access merged with the headache of trying to move data from one company’s IT systems – often built on legacy software – to the blockchain in a way that could be interpreted by another company’s proprietary software. Then you have the thorny issue of throughput, fees and other associated costs with writing and storing data on the blockchain. 

This is an issue we at NEAR have been thinking about deeply, and we believe we have the perfect solution to help enterprises embrace blockchain and the Open Web. We call it Private Shards. 

Private Shards: Blending the public and private seamlessly and securely 
Since the inception of NEAR, it was always designed to be a sharded network: an interconnected global system of users, businesses, and infrastructure providers. As part of NEAR’s design is the ability to partition shards to suit different use cases. 

In consortium models, blockchains aren’t interoperable.
For example, a hospital’s medical data, information on students at a university, or sensitive manufacturing data. All of these datasets have different requirements and needs. On NEAR, a private shard can be created to suit all of these needs, without the need for each of those businesses to build a blockchain from scratch. 

In the consortium model, each of those use cases would need a separate system that catered for the different requirements. Not on NEAR. 

The NEAR blockchain gives enterprises the ability to build private shards that can still be connected to the public blockchain. Why would a business want such a feature? Let’s look at the use cases above. 

Let’s say a hospital housed its records on a private shard, but a patient gets sick overseas and a doctor needs access to his or her records. On NEAR, a doctor – whose identity could be publicly verifiable – could make a request to the private shard for access to those files simply, and securely. 

In the factory example, there are aspects of manufacturing that need to be private, but then there are other aspects that need to be public. Let’s say a customer wants to know when a product has been built and shipped. A private shard could publish that data to the public blockchain seamlessly.  

In order for mass adoption to occur, blockchain needs to be able to blend the public and the private seamlessly, but safely. Private Shards are NEAR’s solution to that challenge, and it’s as simple as starting a node on AWS or AliCloud. Let’s explore how. 

How do Private Shards work? 
Given private shards operate as a shard on the NEAR network, it means that public chain contracts can call into private shard contracts and vice versa. 

This is done via the same mechanism that handles cross-shard routing, which is completely transparent to the users and developers and doesn’t require any additional work (public contracts don’t even need to know they are interacting with private ones). Let’s look at a use case: Two private shards want to interact with each other without routing through public shards, how is this achieved? The shared identity space. 

In private shards, blockchains can share information without compromising on security.
Each private shard gets its own name, similar to domains on the web. For example, if University of Berkeley and Tencent are using this system, they will have “berkeley.edu” and “tencent.com” accounts. 

Inside their private shards, specific applications will then have a sub-account, for example, if both of them are using some application to track ownership of real estate: “properties.berkeley.edu” and “properties.tencent.edu”. Selling a property between these two entities then would require a cross private shard transaction with potential public chain settlement later if later this information needs to be proven to the public parties.

Applications that these companies use will be built exactly the same as other applications on NEAR: smart contracts are built in Rust or Typescript. This allows creators to build frontends that can interact with these smart contracts, including sending cross-private and public shard transactions.

NEAR’s mission has been to bridge the gap between the internet of today and the blockchains that will power the future. There is already a company actively working on this solution – Calimero’s Private Shards.

Private Shards is a core part of that mission. It helps create an ecosystem where businesses, users, and partners can interact, and we invite anyone to join us in that mission to create a more open, and inclusive web. 
Update on the Grassroots Support Initiative
NEAR FOUNDATION
August 28, 2023
One of the things the NEAR Foundation has always been most proud of is the passion and enthusiasm of our builders and grassroots projects — something we have seen demonstrated again since the recent post about the NDC. Over the past week alone, over 30 projects have reached out to the Ecosystem Team and a number of conversations are already underway. This has allowed NEAR Foundation to begin mapping out current needs, and understand the best way to provide support that will ensure the NEAR ecosystem remains a vibrant, open, and accessible place to build. 

For us at the Foundation, hearing directly from builders provides invaluable insight into the state of the ecosystem and how we can best continue to support the people and projects that make it what it is. What we have heard so far is that while financial support is important as the NDC fully ramps up, every project has a unique set of needs that requires a holistic approach to provide the right support, and that simply re-starting a grants program is not the right solution. To make sure that we get as many perspectives from across the ecosystem, we will be leaving the form open for one more week (until September 4th) to give anyone who needs support a chance to have their voice heard.

Once the form is closed and we have had a chance to review all of the inputs, we will then begin setting out a broader plan — in alignment with the NDC — to ensure projects get the support they need as we continue moving forward on the path to decentralization. The moment we have the full insights from these conversations, which should be within the next few weeks, we will share them in a follow-up blog post along with a clear plan on how we will be moving forward. 

We are excited to have so much interest from builders, and look forward to creating a plan that can help keep grassroots projects engaged and building.

You can sign up for a time to speak with the Ecosystem Relations Team here.  


The NEAR Token Sale and Unforkable Community
COMMUNITY
August 14, 2020
The NEAR community utterly humbled us this week. The NEAR token sale, which occurred on CoinList and was available to many non-US participants, sold out completely in just over 2 hours. We didn’t even remotely expect this level of excitement and appreciation but we are deeply grateful.

The goal of the sale was to expand the reach and participation of the NEAR community as we move along the final steps to making MainNet fully community-governed. By many measures, this was an outstanding success — we now have the opportunity to welcome over 1,500 new token holders, who collectively purchased 100M tokens. This is an overwhelming show of support!

In this post, I’ll review some of the early details of the sale but also introduce a new opportunity for those who wanted to participate but were unable to and highlight how they’ll be supported in the future.

A Summary of the Sale 
The sale generated a tremendous amount of interest within the broader community and resulted in the following statistics:

> 9500 unique registrants
> 1500 successful participants
> $152M allocation requests made
> $30M commitments made
135 minutes (and 2 attempts) to sell out
Please note that specific numbers aren’t yet available because it takes several days to finish some of the financing and KYC processes.

Interest in the blockchain space has increased in recent months as fees on Ethereum have again skyrocketed. On our side, the NEAR team has spent 2 years building a platform that both solves the scaling challenges and allows developers to easily build decentralized apps that real humans can use. This sale is a fantastic endorsement of that platform as a solution to today’s problems.

A Second Chance
The conditions of the sale meant that over 6,000 verified registrants were not able to participate. Many of them experienced congestion and server issues on the CoinList platform which made it challenging to take part. This group includes both longtime community members who have been excited about the project for years and brand new enthusiasts who just caught the bug.

We’ve spent the past several days listening to what these people had to say — the good, the bad and the ugly. We heard frustration about some of the technical challenges but, ultimately, it was mostly because people just wanted the chance to take part and felt like they missed the opportunity.

We’d like to give everyone who has that kind of enthusiasm for the project a chance to participate and to join this community. In order to do this, we have the following offer:

Anyone who already registered for the sale but didn’t receive an allocation will have the opportunity to purchase up to 3,000 NEAR tokens at the original sale price. Participants can choose either the 12-month linear release or the 24-month linear release option. To ensure things go smoothly, they will have a full seven days to purchase tokens and there is no preference given to earlier purchases so all eligible participants who want an allocation will receive one. 

This second chance sale will take place from August 18 to August 25. CoinList will send an e-mail out to all eligible participants by early next week with details on how to participate.

While we realize this may not be the exact allocation everyone originally anticipated and represents an imperfect solution, we hope this helps people who want to have a meaningful part in the NEAR ecosystem to join us on this journey.

A Continued Commitment to Community
Beyond just providing people with an opportunity to join the community, both CoinList and the NEAR team want to make it clear that their efforts to build that community will be supported in the future. Thus CoinList will be seeding the first ever NEAR community fund with a $750,000 donation, which will be matched in kind by the NEAR Foundation.

This $1.5M commitment is just the start. It will support future projects on the platform and help underwrite new community-focused initiatives. 

We hope this fund will provide our community with an opportunity to contribute to the evolution and growth of the NEAR ecosystem. If you are interested in getting involved directly, reach out to us at [email protected].

We are so excited to build alongside you! 

Thank you.

 

FAQ
Who can participate? This is not open to any new registrants. It has the same geographical restrictions as before, including being unavailable to US-based participants. Participants will still need to pass the full Swiss KYC and anti-bot checks to participate in the sale if they have not already. Participants who already received allocations are not eligible.
Are new tokens being created? No, there are no new tokens being created to do this. Tokens are being reshuffled from other categories, where they would otherwise support future activities, in order to serve this community now. 
How does this affect circulating supply? The net result on token balances and circulating supply will depend on how many people participate in this, but we expect it to reduce circulating supply in early days (because some tokens are being moved from an unlocked category) and slightly increase it during later periods (because some tokens are being moved from longer-term categories). The token distribution post will be updated but only after we have finished this activity because it heavily depends on the final participation rate.
Where can I go to participate? You will receive an email with instructions from CoinList if you are eligible. You do not need to ask us if you are eligible!
Am I guaranteed an allocation if I’m eligible? Yes, you will be able to purchase up to 3,000 NEAR tokens. We have reserved enough space for everyone who was not able to participate the first time to do so now. You will have between August 18 to August 25 to claim this. There is no rush because you can participate as long as you are in before time expires.
I already purchased NEAR tokens. Can I participate? This is only available to people who were not able to participate in the sale already. It doesn’t matter which option you chose the first time — if you were able to receive an allocation, you are not eligible for this sale.
Where can I ask questions about this? Please email the CoinList team at [email protected]
When can we learn more about the community fund? We’re not ready to release details yet on this yet but stay tuned. We’ll notify the community via the mailing list at https://pages.near.org/newsletter.
NEARCON: The Ultimate Web3 Education for Only $99!
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 22, 2023
As NEAR’s flagship conference, NEARCON is the place to learn all of the latest on Web3 technologies and the open web. NEARCON 2023 will be the ultimate Web3 education — and for only $99. 

Let’s explore what you can expect from the NEARCON crash course — from recent Web3 developments in venture capital, decentralization, and AI to NEAR technologies like the Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S), and much more. 

What you’ll learn at NEARCON 2023
The Web3 ecosystem consists of several key roles and sectors, and we’re lucky to have some of the biggest names attending NEARCON. Over 4 days, you will hear from venture capital figures like Samantha Bohbot (RockawayX) and Nathalie Oestmann (Outlier Ventures) as well as accelerator leaders like Nicolai Reinbold (CV Labs). There will also be a number of entrepreneurs and founders, including Michael Casey (CoinDesk), Alexander Skidanov (NEAR Protocol), Rebecca Allen (Contented), Dave Balter (Flipside Crypto), Aurelie Boiteux (Nansen), Mitchell Amador (Immunefi), Marc Goldich (Proximity Labs), and many others. 

Featured talks, panels, and discussions will include learnings on:

Open Web — Learn how open source technologies and ideals are colliding with blockchain technologies like NEAR to create an open web where everyone can be fairly rewarded for their data, ideas, and effort. 
AI & Blockchain — Learn from the OG of AI himself, NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, on how Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence are intersecting in 2023, and how they will develop in the near future. 
Decentralization — See how the NDC (NEAR Digital Collective) is helping to decentralize governance to the NEAR community. 
Regulation & Policy — Get updated on the latest Web3 regulatory developments. 
Your Web3 education doesn’t stop at NEARCON — take the next step
If you love what you learn at NEARCON, you can keep going with your NEAR and open web education. The NEAR ecosystem offers a number of resources to help you find success in Web3. 

Thanks to the NEAR Horizon team — who will be on hand at NEARCON — you can get help in your journey of building, getting funding, and networking as a Web3 builder, founder, and entrepreneur. 

See you in Lisbon!
Stake Wars Week 3 Retro
DEVELOPERS
November 25, 2019
On Nov 18, 8am PST we had the third Stake Wars call with around 10 people. We again opened registration for validators to the public through our customized form. However, due to insufficient testing of the form, some bugs went unnoticed until Sunday, which may caused some registrations to be lost. As a result, only five external validators actually signed up for stake wars this week at genesis.

The network started as expected during the call. However, very soon we realized that the new state sync code does not work properly — it panics on empty state. After fixing the bug, we restarted the network on Monday afternoon with the same set of validators. However, due to timezone difference none of the external validators was able to restart their nodes at the same time as us, which caused finality gadget to stall since there were fewer than 2/3 validators online.

Shortly afterwards, we noticed that it became difficult for nodes to sync to the stake wars network. After some debugging, we realized that the network forked and nodes had difficulty syncing because they incorrectly rejected known headers so that they cannot do state sync. We fixed the bug in header sync and changed adaptive waiting time for block production to reduce forkfulness. The network was restarted again on Tuesday night.

The new network ran normally for a couple days before Murphy’s law kicked in. This time, the network itself seemed fine but no transactions can go through, which means that no one can register account on our stake wars wallet or send a staking transaction. Looking into it we noticed that no chunks were included in the newly produced blocks.

At the same time, all our validators have been kicked out at that point, making it harder to debug. As a debug workaround, we figured out a way to impersonate the block producing node by customizing the node’s code to see why chunks were not included, which soon leads to the discovery of a simple but hard-to-notice bug in our block production logic.

Here is a summary of the issues we found from running stake wars this week:

State sync crashes on empty state. The new state sync code incorrectly crashed on receiving an empty state, which is fixed in https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/pull/1716.
Incorrect rejection of old block headers during header sync, which is fixed in https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/pull/1740.
In block production, chunks might be incorrectly removed if not all chunks are ready when the block production function is invoked, which is fixed in https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore/pull/1765.
Overall, this week’s experience indicates that our stability has regressed, mostly due to the new code that was merged last week. Although it is hard to stabilize our code while still developing new features, we will focus on improving test coverage for more complex setups to make sure that new code doesn’t break the system. For example, we have now a nightly test infrastructure set up so that we can run expensive integration multi node tests nightly to test the stability of the system as a whole. Our goal is to see steady increase in the stability of the network over the next few weeks.
NEAR Foundation & Pagoda Goals and Target Metrics for 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 13, 2023
Building on the 2023 strategy for NEAR Foundation and Pagoda shared here at the end of last year, the goal of this post is to share the specific objectives and target metrics that will make this vision a reality. 

All NEAR ecosystem OKRs for 2023 distill to a single North Star: the goal of 10 million monthly active accounts (MAAs) by the end of the year. This is approximately 12x growth from today’s 800K MAAs (the all-time high was around 900K) and puts NEAR solidly on the path to achieve mainstream adoption in the next few years. The Foundation and Pagoda have chosen to focus on MAAs because they believe user adoption is the best indicator that NEAR is providing real value to end users today with monthly frequency and eventually weekly or daily. 

During 2023, NEAR will transform from a Layer-1 blockchain into the Blockchain Operating System, connecting applications, tooling, social, earning, and developer components across the Open Web. With product development of NEAR Discovery, the bottom-up community approach, the top-down partnerships growth strategy from NEAR Foundation, and continued iteration on the best user experience and onboarding in Web3, each team in Pagoda and NEAR Foundation will contribute to overall growth in usage over the next year. 

The following OKRs (objectives and key results) are the guideposts for each team in 2023.

NEAR Foundation Goals for 2023
What does success look like for NEAR Foundation at the end of this year?

NEAR is the blockchain operating system: brand, marketing
100% of content and processes running on NEAR Discovery
30% of NEAR community is using Discovery
3M Twitter followers and 2x increase in SOV (share of voice)
NEAR is a thriving decentralized ecosystem: community, legal, accelerator
NDC and 3 community DAOs set up with core contributors and legal structure
50+ NPS score from community 
$250M in external capital flowing into minimum of 100 projects
NEAR is transforming the best Web2 projects: BD
5M+ MAAs added to NEAR through minimum of 3 major partnerships
12+ landmark partnership agreements
24+ tier-2 partnership agreements 
By the end of 2023, NEAR Foundation will have transformed NEAR into a blockchain operating system, made possible through NEAR Discovery, fostering an even more thriving decentralized ecosystem with more MAAs, major partnerships, and external capital inflow.

Pagoda OKRs
What does success look like for Pagoda at the end of this year? 

NEAR has the best-in-class protocol and infrastructure: core, protocol, security
100% on-chain availability and security to support product growth
NEAR has solutions that support millions of users: solutions & product
10+ partnerships integrated with companies of 1M+ users, 100K+ MAA growth
NEAR onboards and retains millions of users: product, Discovery, DevOps
20%+ month-over-month growth in MAAs
25% 8-week retention and K-factor greater than one
20% month-over-month growth in Monthly Active Developers (MADs), with 20% growth in used components and component retention
By the end of the year, Pagoda will have created NEAR Discovery and other solutions and products for developers, while growing partnerships and monthly active developers and accounts. 

Note on Metrics
Different NEAR teams have tracked various metrics to measure success at different points, but a macro goal for 2023 is to unify progress measurement across the organization. The decision to focus on Monthly Active Accounts reflects two critical points: first, that accounts will be a more accurate measure than wallets in NEAR Discovery thanks to improvements in onboarding, and second, that NEAR cannot provably track unique users because of the default privacy of Web3––many users have several accounts to handle different types of activity. 

NEAR’s goal since the first NEARCON in 2021 has been to get to a billion users within five years, or in 2026. While a high number of daily active users (DAA) will be necessary for achieving a billion users, the NEAR ecosystem is not there yet––daily usage will require many successful apps and seamless user journeys between them, which is the goal for NEAR Discovery. Over time, NEAR Foundation and Pagoda expect to begin tracking more granular metrics such as Daily Active Accounts, accounts that use more than one app, and retention across apps. 

2023: The Year of NEAR 
NEAR is the best-positioned ecosystem in Web3 to achieve mainstream adoption in 2023 despite difficult market conditions. With NEAR Foundation, Pagoda, and the community working towards concrete, shared goals and a common vision, the ecosystem will be better aligned with clearer paths to contribution. The Foundation will continue delivering on its commitment to communicate often about its activities and progress.

Watch on Twitter and NEAR Social for progress updates on these goals in Q1 as well as a public dashboard for easier tracking of target metrics soon. 
Stake Wars Episode II
DEVELOPERS
May 19, 2020
Return of the Validators
NEAR’s MainNet recently launched into its first phase, called “POA” (see full roadmap). This means that a small handful of validating nodes are currently being run by the core team. In order to progress to the next phase, “MainNet: Restricted”, the operation of the network will be handed off to a large group of node operators called validators. 

The goal of Stake Wars: Episode II is to onboard those validators, test the stability of the system and begin introducing some of the unique aspects of NEAR’s delegation system in preparation for the next phase of MainNet itself.

Stake Wars: Episode I occurred in late 2019 as a way of stress-testing the network. It helped to expose key areas for stability improvements and drove improvement of release processes. We hope that Episode II will be similarly helpful for enhancing the stability of the system but, additionally, it is about bringing new and old validators up to speed so they can begin staking immediately at the launch of MainNet: Restricted.

This post will discuss the unique features of validation and delegation on NEAR, show how Stake Wars: Episode II will work and describe the rewards for successful participation.

Contract-Based Delegation
One of the key features that NEAR offers which differentiates it from many Proof-of-Stake networks is contract-based delegation.

“Delegation” is when one token holder lends their tokens to a validating node to use them on the delegator’s behalf. This is important because not everyone wants to — or is able to — run a full validating node. While the minimum requirements for running a validating node are not technically challenging, the operational efforts are multiple. They consist in ensuring that updates are deployed at the same time with other validators; and building a robust infrastructure, optimized for uptime and security. Since these requirements can require a professional level of oversight and expense, more casual token holders generally prefer not to do this.

Other protocols typically implement delegation at the protocol level, meaning that it is exactly the same across all validators. Validators generally compete with each other purely based on what price they offer — for example, if the protocol is providing a 5% reward for validation, these validators may provide 4% of that as return to people who delegate to them and keep the 1% for themselves. This generally results in a price war where the only differentiation between validators is what return they offer and reputational factors like how many people already delegate to them. Also, custodial centralized exchanges frequently take a large fraction of the delegation market as they allow to offer additional financial instruments that regular validators can’t.

Because delegation in NEAR is done through smart contracts, it is far more flexible. Each validator could theoretically produce its own delegation contract or configure the parameters of a widely trusted contract to offer a broad range of services. For example, one validator might offer delegators a better return if they lock up their capital for a long period of time while another might offer better returns for larger size delegations.

This contract-based delegation makes it easier to pipe together Open Finance components, so you can imagine contracts which dynamically allocate delegators’ funds to lending protocols or validators depending on the prevailing interest rates and return in the market. Essentially, staking becomes a core component of the Open Finance ecosystem while still providing security to the system as intended.

How Delegation Works
Delegation on NEAR is done by transfering funds to the validator’s account via a secure, trust-less smart contract. There is a reference implementation of such a smart contract available now on Github, which we encourage you to explore to better understand the mechanics of delegation. 

Over time, it is expected that validators will roll out more features for contracts like this, for example, tax optimization for different regions, staking tokens to provide better liquidity for validators and delegators, or any of the previously-described return optimization strategies.

Delegation during Stake Wars: Episode II will occur through direct interaction with these contracts via the command line tools but, in the future, explorers and wallets will support an user interface on top of this tooling to make it easy for non-technical users to participate (check out code example and video walkthrough if you want to build this into your wallet/explorer/tool).

Validator Participation
Validators are important participants of the NEAR network. As mentioned, they provide the core operation of the network, ongoing security guarantees and participation in technical governance. They run the nodes that generate new blocks, and are instrumental in rolling out technical upgrades and security patches across their systems, coordinating with the NEAR core development team, and other validators. Their voice is heard through the direct aspects of technical governance (upgrades) as well as participation in voting processes which support other areas of network governance.

During the rollout of MainNet, validators play a particularly important role because their voting power will determine when transfers are unlocked and MainNet officially enters its final community-governed stage.

While some validators may participate with only their own stake (for example if they have a sufficient allocation of tokens to begin with), many are professionals who rely on the support of delegators to source enough stake and participate early in validation. Thus, in order to earn the trust of prospective delegators, it is important that such validators are visible and vocal in the community. 

In the early days of MainNet, the minimum stake required to become a validator is fairly high because the total number of “seats” available for validation is determined by the number of shards the network has been broken into. NEAR initially contains a single shard with 100 seats. As the usage of NEAR grows, the number of shards will grow as well and, with it, the number of seats will grow too. 

With 100 validator seats available during the initial rollout of MainNet, it is expected that 1-4M NEAR tokens will be required to take one seat on MainNet. This is determined by the overall distribution of tokens staked – see more details in the Economics blog post. To be clear, the tokens that a validator bids in for validation are the sum of their own tokens and those tokens which have been delegated to them, thus delegation will be quite important for many validators to achieve sufficient balances to participate in running nodes.

In upcoming months, more seats will become available as the number of shards grows and a security feature called “hidden validators” will be released. This will provide more opportunities for validators to participate in the network operations with lower capital requirements.

Stake Wars will take place on the BetaNet network and not MainNet, so it uses the native tokens of the test network BetaNet, which are allocated to participants upon registration. Validators who didn’t already submit their application can create their account, set up their node and begin participating in validation. This initiative is already quite popular. There are already 180+ applications from the previous phase of Stake Wars to participate even before this announcement, with over 60 active validators and 100 nodes currently running.

Initially, 75k BetaNet $NEAR (NOT MainNet tokens) will be provided to the new applicants of Stake Wars. Depending on how popular the Stake Wars is, this amount may become insufficient to earn one seat so delegation could increasingly become important. Additionally, to make room for interested parties, we will work to span Stake Wars: Episode II over multiple test networks (see below for details).

Path to Community Governed MainNet 
The overall goal is for validators and token holders to take over technical governance of MainNet (see MainNet Roadmap for more details). To achieve this, Stake Wars is an opportunity to identify the best validators and for them transition from BetaNet to TestNet and then MainNet and provide them with the ability to attract delegations.

Every validator will go through these phases:

Join Stake Wars on BetaNet
Successfully complete BetaNet Validator challenges
Get promoted to TestNet
Successfully complete TestNet Validator challenges
Start staking and accepting delegations on MainNet
Vote for unlocking transfers
The teams who will transition from one network to the other will be asked to unstake their tokens, and focus on the new network. This process will both make room for new Stake Wars entries on BetaNet, and will progressively increase the number of validators running on MainNet.

Note: every reward will pass case-by-case evaluation and KYC controls, to discourage automated scripting to bias any metrics, or participants not interested to run a node on MainNet.

For more details on differences between BetaNet and TestNet checkout last section of the Roadmap to MainNet blog post.

Judgement Criteria and Rewards
As a validator, one of the main criteria to determine success is running secure and live infrastructure. This means setting up infrastructure for updating software, having a hot swap setup to keep uptime when updating software (NEAR has the unique ability to atomically switch staking from one node to another). Additionally, it’s about participating in discussions, helping other community members and attracting more delegations.

A new leaderboard will rank validators based on:

Uptime
Capacity to update the node and closely follow latest releases
Correct deployment of the delegation contract
Involvement in community discussions and helping other members
Building open source tools and other code contributions
A new leaderboard will be published in the Stake Wars Repo on Github, however some parameters will be shared, if requested, during 1:1 conversations and reviews.

The primary reward for participating successfully in Stake Wars: Episode II is that top operators will be onboarded as the initial set of validators of MainNet. This makes them the initial stewards of the network and leaders in the community, which is very helpful for attracting the delegation of other token holders from across the ecosystem. 

Additionally, because “MainNet Restricted” doesn’t have inflation yet, to cover the costs and motivate for getting in this set, such validators will receive 10,000 $NEAR a month.

Stake Wars: Episode II is a dynamic program that will evolve over time. It will introduce increasingly difficult challenges on BetaNet and will progressively migrate to TestNet. Activities for validators will be hard-forks, unplanned restarts, deploying new node releases, updates to delegation contracts, and following best practices on their infrastructure. On a bi-weekly basis, new challenges will be announced in the community channels, and participating will unlock additional rewards, including the opportunity to be officially invited to join TestNet and then the MainNet.

These challenges will unlock additional rewards: NEAR Foundation allocated up to 1 Million NEAR tokens in total for the participants of these initiatives.

Validator Advisory Board
We are also launching the Validator Advisory Board, a selected group of professional validators who,over time, will become key voices in the technical governance of the community.

These validators are engaged in group discussions, product advice and feedback, testing beta releases, and suggesting features that support other validators, and the ecosystem at large. 

The initial members of this board were the first participants who started running validator nodes on BetaNet, helping the NEAR Collective with technical details of validation and supporting fellow validators with setting everything up. Going forward, this group will stay at the forefront of NEAR’s advances in staking, providing product feedback and building tooling.

Initial members of this Validator Advisory Board are: Bison Trails, Buildlinks, Figment Networks, HashQuark, Sparkpool and Staked.

There are still a few vacant spots on the Board. If you are a professional validator participating in Stake Wars and want to join this group, reach out to us.

How to join Stake Wars: Episode II
There are a few steps to follow:

Open the initiative official page at nearpages.wpengine.com/stakewars.
If you haven’t already, you must sign up for NEAR’s BetaNet Wallet at this link. It will allocate you the few test tokens necessary to deploy a delegation contract.
If you haven’t already, you have to enroll in the Stake Wars program, from this form, to subscribe to our technical bulletin, and receive new releases information.
Follow the indications on Github, at the address https://github.com/nearprotocol/stakewars, to deploy your own node and add it to the VALIDATORS.md list.
Deploy the staking pool smart contract, to enable delegation on your node.
Once the contract is deployed, you will receive extra tokens: differently from the past weeks, this time the tokens will come in the form of delegation, and not tokens available in your wallet.
Join the official community channels on Discord or Telegram and follow any weekly updates or actions required (such as update your node to a new release)
All node operators who are already running their node on BetaNet will have only to deploy the Staking Pool Contract, and update VALIDATORS.md file on Github accordingly.

NEAR Stake Wars is waiting for you, start today your validator journey at nearpages.wpengine.com/stakewars.

Getting Involved beyond Stake Wars
Even if you aren’t planning to participate in Stake Wars, there are a number of things you might be interested in:

Tokens: Some validators will use their own stake and others will receive delegation. If you would like to get a stake in the network via acquiring tokens, be sure to sign up for the token list to hear news of any opportunities to do so.

Developers: Check out the docs quickstart for information about how to get started building on TestNet and ask questions in the chat. If you are ready to deploy to MainNet, register for the Developer Program.

Interested Contributors: If you run your own community and we can help out or if you are interested in helping out directly, learn about our community programs or ask questions in the chat. 

Startup Founders: NEAR is a supporter of the Open Web Collective, a protocol-agnostic community of startup founders who are focused on building on the decentralized web. They provide education, networking and support during this process. Learn more and join at https://openwebcollective.com.

Business Leaders: If you are curious about how to integrate with NEAR or whether it might be a good fit for your business needs, reach out to [email protected].
How Unrealistic is Bribing Frequently Rotated Validators?
DEVELOPERS
October 24, 2018
Many proposed blockchain protocols today use some sorts of committees to propose and validate blocks. The committees are at the core of the Delegated Proof of Stake, and no sharding protocol is feasible without only a subset of nodes operating each shard.

Majority of the DPoS based protocols go as far as to claim that once the block is finalized by the committee, it is irreversible.

When analyzing the security of such committees it is often assumed that all the participants in the entire population can be separated into honest and malicious in advance, and those honest participants will remain honest after they become validators. For example, such an assumption is at the core of security analysis in the latest MultiVAC sharding yellowpaper.

In Ethereum Sharding FAQ multiple security models are analyzed, including a Bribing Attacker model. In this model, an attacker has a budget which it can use to arbitrarily corrupt validators in the network. According to the FAQ, some people claim the model is unrealistically adversarial.

In this short write-up, I will do some analysis on how unrealistically adversarial the bribing attacker model is, as well as how easy this model allows an adversary to corrupt a shard. Let’s consider such an adversary, with a budget proportional to the stakes in a single shard (which in a system with hundreds of shards is less than a percent of the total stake) that wants to compromise one shard and see how they go about it.

The Approach
Let’s start with the simplest approach. We will assume the adversary has a good media channel to reach out to many participants of the protocol, and also for simplicity assume the stake of each participant is equal and is exactly 32 tokens (the constant Ethereum 2.0 uses).

The adversary then uses the media channel to advertise that they would pay 40 tokens in 15 minutes for any private key of any validator that will be at that time assigned to shard #7. For as long a validator trusts the adversary to actually pay the promised 40 tokens, it makes a lot of sense for them to take advantage of the offer. The assumption of trust, however, is rather strong.

Reducing Trust
Unless some smart Algorand-style way of assigning validators is used, the public keys of the validators are known in advance. The adversary can create a smart contract in a chain that is different from the one they are trying to corrupt (without loss of generality, let’s say the chain being corrupted is NEAR, and the chain the smart contract is published on is Ethereum). In its simplest form, the smart contract includes all the public keys of the validators that will be assigned to the shard to be compromised at the time the adversary wants to attack it, and the smart contract would immediately send 40 tokens to any user who submits a private key that matches any of the public keys in the contract.

While this makes the transaction involve no trust, it has a drawback that the private key will become known to everybody in the system, not just the attacker.

To get around it, we can improve the smart contract. The adversary now publishes their own public key pka, and any participant that wants to submit their private key for 40 tokens encrypts their private key with pka before submission. The contract then enters a 15-minute challenge period during which the adversary can submit their own private key ska to decrypt the message submitted by the participant and show that it is not encrypting a valid private key of a validator. If no challenge is submitted within 15 minutes, 40 tokens are released.

This way the private key of the validator is only known to the validator and the adversary, and the validator is guaranteed to get their 40 tokens. At this moment no reasonable validator that has no stake in the platform besides the 32 tokens they staked will miss on the opportunity to effectively get 8 tokens for free.

Footnote: A few further improvements are possible that would reduce spam, such as the adversary posting some message a validator needs to encrypt with their private key so that the smart contract can verify the validator has it, or validators staking some tokens that are released back to them unless the adversary challenges their submission.

Further Analysis
The approach above makes two major assumptions: that there exists a media channel that can reach out to a large percentage of the validators, and that many validators are easily corruptible. While both assumptions are somewhat strong, neither is completely unreasonable.

It is also worth noting that once a validator submits a private key to the adversary, the validator themselves still has access to the key. At this point, they can use it to exercise some malicious slashable behavior that somehow benefits them (since their stake at this point is doomed to be slashed no matter what, and the payment for the private key was already received). While a valid argument, it is worth pointing out that if the adversary’s goal is to compromise the shard, then a large set of validators simultaneously acting maliciously is not really against their interests.

Another important observation is that by advertising the exact time and shard that will be attacked, the adversary attracts significant attention to that shard at that time, so whatever malicious intent they plan to exercise will be immediately slashed with a proper system design, possibly before any benefit from such intent can be realized.

Outro
I will be travelling to Prague for the DevCon4 next week. Many founders and engineers from recognized sharded blockchain projects such as Cosmos, Ethereum and PolkaDot will be there. The primary purpose of my trip will be to figure out what is their thinking on the adaptive and bribing adversaries and defending against them in the sharded blockchains. Any good insights I accumulate will be posted in our blog.

I write on different topics related to building distributed blockchains and work full time on building NEAR Protocol, a decentralized distributed applications platform. If you are interested in what we build and write, follow our progress:

NEAR Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp, we have open conversations on tech, governance, and economics of blockchain on our discord.
https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR is in the Top 50 – Crypto Valley VC Report
COMMUNITY
March 3, 2021
NEAR is happy to announce that it has been listed as one of the Top 50 Blockchain Technology firms in Crypto Valley! NEAR is included in the 6th edition of the Crypto Valley VC Top 50 Report, created by CV VC AG in collaboration with its technology partners PwC and inacta. The Top 50 is chosen based on funding, valuation, and employees. Together, the Top 50 had a total valuation of US$254.9 billion

The Crypto Valley VC Top 50 is a periodical report on market valuation developments from Crypto Valley, which includes Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The CV VC Top 50 Report aims to highlight the impact of Crypto Valley on the Swiss economy and job market. The report shows the growth of the crypto and blockchain space and highlights the best companies in terms of funding, valuation, and employees.

 

Top 50 organizations – CV VC report.
This is the 6th edition of the CV VC Top 50 report and in this edition, NEAR is in the Top 50 under the Blockchain and Protocol sector!

To read the full report, please visit: https://cvvc.com/top50.

 

NEAR Report – by Mally Anderson
More than a decade after Bitcoin’s genesis block and five years since the Ethereum mainnet launched, blockchain networks support trillions of dollars in value and have millions of users worldwide, but they have not achieved anything close to mainstream global adoption. Many use cases have been unavailable to blockchain builders––especially in the last year, with the rise of DeFi on Ethereum and the resulting network congestion––because of slow confirmation, high gas fees, and high hurdles to onboarding users. The crypto ecosystem will likely evolve to become more multichain to address these bottlenecks and a range of layer-one protocols and layer-two solutions will apply their own strategies to address scalability and usability.

NEAR’s approach is to focus on the developer and user experience. By focusing on accessibility and usability, it can become just as easy to develop a decentralized application on a blockchain as it is to build any other kind of application on today’s internet––and just as easy to use. NEAR Protocol is a fully decentralized, community-controlled layer-one blockchain protocol and smart contract platform. The mission of the NEAR collective is to accelerate the world’s transition to open technologies by growing and enabling a community of developers and creators.

Beyond ease of use to support global adoption, the network must be able to scale to meet that volume of demand––which NEAR can, using dynamic sharding and a novel consensus mechanism. Dynamic sharding divides the system into parallel shards that each handle a subset of the computation and which can be added or removed based on usage. This horizontal scaling approach (as opposed to vertical scaling, as with Ethereum layer-twos such as rollups) raises the network’s potential throughput to more than 1000x that of Ethereum 1.0, across 100 shards. Combined with gas fees between 1000x and 10,000x cheaper than those on ETH, this horizontal scaling approach also opens the door to greater usability. 

Developer experience and end-user accessibility are the top priorities for NEAR, all the way down to the protocol level. Developers can use familiar tools, such as Rust or AssemblyScript, to build on NEAR’s WASM-based runtime, and the application build/test/deploy cycle is much faster and simpler than on most networks. Transaction fees are predictable and developers can earn a rebate of 30% of the gas moving through their smart contracts. 

NEAR believes the future of blockchain relies on progressive onboarding for users new to crypto. NEAR’s unique contract-based account model provides the flexibility to onboard users to an application who either don’t hold NEAR tokens or have never interacted with a blockchain––a process that can take dozens of steps and complex fiat onramps on most other networks. Human-readable, named account addresses (i.e. cryptovalley.near) replace long, clunky hex strings and can support multiple names within a single public key. With progressive onboarding, the crypto elements of using decentralized apps on NEAR can be 100% abstracted away from the user and the complexities of gas fees, storage costs, seed phrases, and keys are obscured from their experience until they are ready to claim their wallet and hold their own tokens.

Because NEAR is a sharded scalable blockchain, the easiest point of comparison is Ethereum 2.0––but this does not mean they are competitors. Quite the opposite, in fact: NEAR is compatible and interoperable with Ethereum 1.0 today. The hope is that NEAR solves many developers’ pain points and blockers around cost and scalability today, without having to commit fully to one network or the other.

NEAR will soon interoperate with Ethereum via a fully decentralized asset bridge and EVM support, which will allow Solidity contracts to run on NEAR without any code rewrites. The ideal for many developers and application builders in today’s blockchain landscape is to run a product on multiple blockchains and get the best of each: they can leverage community and liquidity on one, while leveraging performance on another. Using the ETH-NEAR bridge, a developer can have the same asset on both blockchains and let apps communicate across the bridge. 

In order to realize the NEAR collective’s vision of a world where all people have control of their money, data, and power of governance, we need a positive-sum approach to growing adoption of all open technologies and decentralized networks. Rebuilding a truly open, decentralized web is not about performance and features alone, but about empowering builders and entrepreneurs to make their ideas a reality and onboard users without barriers.

ABOUT CV VC
CV VC is an early-stage venture capital investor with a focus on startups that build on blockchain technology. In addition to the venture capital investments, we operate our own incubator and ecosystem business under the CV Labs brand, consisting of co-working spaces, advisory and events.

Learn more about our opportunities to invest in the next generation of blockchain startups, our one-of-a-kind blockchain incubation program and how startups get funded, our corporate advisory and consulting services, and our community-focused co-working spaces.

ABOUT NEAR
NEAR exists to to accelerate the world’s transition to open technologies by growing and enabling a community of developers and creators. NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity with the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands. NEAR’s unique account model allows developers to build secure apps that consumers can actually use similarly to today’s web apps, something which requires multiple second-layer add-ons on other blockchains.

If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for a developer program and join the conversation in NEAR Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to NEAR newsletter, or following @NEARProtocol on Twitter for the latest news.


NEAR 2022: A Year in Review
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 23, 2022
It’s been a whirlwind year for NEAR – and it’s hard to believe that 2022 is coming to an end. It’s been a year filled with massive milestones and achievements, including the biggest NEARCON ever, record-breaking new wallet creation, and much more.

With 2023 around the corner, it’s a great time to reflect and take stock of all the exciting happenings and announcements that took place in 2022. NEAR Foundation congratulates every developer, community member, and partner that made 2022 a blast.

Without further ado, here’s everything that happened with NEAR in 2022, how the ecosystem is successfully navigating bear market conditions, and why NEAR is primed for explosive growth heading into 2023!

Protocol Progress and JavaScript SDK
The last 12 months saw huge progress on the protocol level, with an exciting roadmap charting the course for 2023 and beyond. From staking upgrades to new developer tools, the NEAR protocol made huge strides in onboarding new builders and the next 1 billion users.

NEAR introduced the brand new JavaScript SDK, enabling developers to build on NEAR using the most popular programming language in the world. Brendan Eiche, the inventor of JavaScript and co-founder of privacy-first browser Brave, even joined a panel at NEARCON to discuss the new SDK, Brave’s new support of Aurora, and why he’s excited about NEAR.

NEAR also saw the introduction of meta-transactions, allowing third parties to pay transactions for the transaction cost of any account. Users can then be onboarded to NEAR apps without owning any NEAR tokens. Meta transaction development will continue through next year and will be critical to new wallet growth.

Stake Wars’ latest iteration also began in 2022, marking another step towards decentralizing the network. Stake Wars will increase the total number of validators as chunk-only producers for the next phases of sharding. The chunk-only producer role will be more accessible to new validators who don’t have sufficient $NEAR to run a Block Producer node.

Phase 1 of Nightshade Sharding Commences
Stake Wars was a critical step in the transition from Simple Nightshade to Phase 1 of sharding in 2022. As Phase 1 continues, total validators will increase from around 100 to 300, with a significantly lower seat price. Phase 1 was crucial to facilitate scaling, improve decentralization, and bring the Open Web to mass adoption.

There will be an 86% decrease in collateral requirements to become a chunk-only producer as Phase 1 of Nightshade concludes in 2022 and continues into the next year. Phase 1 went live on mainnet in September 2022 with key contributions and assistance from the Pagoda team.

As NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin told CoinDesk in the lead-up to the Phase 1 roll-out, “the more users the network gets, the more decentralized the network gets as well.” This allows NEAR to add more validators in response to more demand for the network, delivering on the promise of speed, scalability, and efficiency. 

Major Strides in Funding and Transparency
A thriving NEAR ecosystem requires resources and trust, both of which made major strides. The birth of Transparency Reports assured the community that all core stakeholders in NEAR are operating in good faith and from a position of financial strength. These reports provide important information about the health of the protocol and ecosystem, including staking distribution, daily transactions, and new accounts created. (Read the Q3 Transparency Report.)

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament also hosted a post-FTX AMA, re-assuring the ecosystem of NEAR’s runway and explaining why the current bear market is a time for a conviction to build.

To see how NEAR Foundation and other ecosystem funding projects have been distributing portions of the $800M in funding throughout 2022, check out Q1/Q2 and Q3 Transparency Reports. Key areas of funding include Proximity Labs and DeFi, DAOs, NFT infrastructure, and Regional Hubs. The NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) was also announced and launched at NEARCON, with one of the goals being to further decentralize and democratize grants giving and decision-making processes.

Ecosystem Growth
NEAR’s 2022 was one of huge growth and innovation. New partnerships like Sweatcoin and SailGP were major stepping stones toward bringing Web3 to the masses. Projects in areas such as gaming, music, and NFTs showcased that the NEAR ecosystem is thriving and poised for new heights in 2023.

The NEAR protocol experienced 15x growth in cumulative accounts over the past year with 22M+ today. NEAR also has 900K monthly active wallets, marking a major increase from this time last year. And in 2022, the NEAR ecosystem generated $330M of external capital in projects building on NEAR. 

Movement Economy
One of the biggest catalysts for new NEAR wallet and account creation was the partnership with Sweatcoin. The $SWEAT token rewards users for every step they take throughout the day, encouraging users to live healthy lifestyles. Sweatcoin migrating to NEAR pushed total wallets from 2 million at the beginning of the year to over 20 million by November. As Flament pointed out during the Sweatcoin keynote at NEARCON, the movement economy is in its infancy, and NEAR is poised to be a leader in the space with the help of Sweatcoin.

DAO Innovation
Another huge addition to the NEAR ecosystem was the world-renowned boat racing league, SailGP. SailGP partnered with NEAR to pioneer the intersection of sports, Web3, and Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs). In addition to offering NFT collectibles on the NEAR blockchain to fans, SailGP will use AstroDAO tooling to create the first fan-owned team as a DAO. In addition to the growth of ecosystem projects like Kin DAO for equity and inclusion, it was a banner year for NEAR and DAOs.

Blockchain Music
You may not have noticed, but 2022 saw a massive surge in interest about music and Web3. And one of the most innovative projects in this area was in the NEAR ecosystem, with the launch of Endlesss. The music creation, marketing, and community development platform’s NEAR integration went live in the summer as a virtual gathering place blending social media features with music production tools. Endlesss enables musicians of all skill levels to conduct “jam sessions” on the NEAR blockchain and mint their music as NFTs. 

Gaming
The NEAR ecosystem got a huge dose of star power with the unveiling of Armored Kingdom. Backed by Hollywood star Mila Kunis, Armored Kingdom will be an immersive gaming, NFT, storytelling, and metaverse experience built on the NEAR blockchain. The project kicked off with a first edition NFT comic book airdrop at Consensus, Austin. NEAR also announced the launch of the South Korea Regional Hub with a focus on bringing the NEAR blockchain to the massive local game development community. 

PlayEmber also established itself as a key player in the NEAR gaming ecosystem, taking a mobile-first approach to Web3 gaming and bringing advertisers into the space. PlayEmber’s games now have over 4.2 million monthly active users, and recently closed a $2.3 million pre-seed raise led by Shima Capital.

NFTs
With core NFT infrastructure maturing in the NEAR ecosystem, 2022 was a year of innovative use cases and groundbreaking projects. NEARCON saw the announcement of a key grant to Few and Far, a premium NFT marketplace on NEAR with a seamless UX and simple minting solutions. One of NEAR’s biggest NFT projects, Mintbase, received over $12 million in funding this August. Mintbase empowers niche creators with the ability to mint NFTs of any type with little technical know-how, exemplifying NEAR’s commitment to making Web3 easy for everyone.

Looking Ahead
From the launch of Phase 1 sharding to protocol upgrades and ecosystem growth, 2022 was a huge leap for the NEAR ecosystem in many respects. It’s the year that the “Create Without Limits” vision was introduced, the biggest NEARCON ever took place, and some of the most important partnerships in the history of NEAR were cemented. It was also a year in which NEAR committed to more transparency and communication with the community.  

Looking forward, NEAR will continue to champion Web3 as a catalyst for change, in addition to environmental sustainability as a carbon-neutral blockchain. In 2023, the NEAR community can expect even more partnerships that push boundaries and support projects that will enhance and empower a prosperous NEAR ecosystem.
NEAR Foundation to fund USN Protection Programme
COMMUNITY
October 24, 2022
The NEAR Foundation has set aside $40m USD for a USN Protection Programme grant, designed to protect users from a recent issue relating to USN by ensuring eligible USN holders can redeem their USN on a 1:1 basis with USDT.e. The Programme is now live, run by a subsidiary of Aurora Labs, and can be found here.

Decentral Bank (DCB) recently contacted the NEAR Foundation to advise that USN – a NEAR-native stablecoin created and launched by DCB independently of NEAR Foundation – had become undercollateralised. DCB confirmed that this was due to an initial algorithmic version of USN (v1), which is no longer algorithmic since its upgrade to v2 in June, that was susceptible to undercollateralisation during extreme market conditions. 

This collateral gap of $40m USD is fully covered by the USN Protection Programme. This gap is fixed and not linked to the $NEAR token price in any way (and $NEAR has never had a hardcoded burn/mint relationship to USN).

Given the issues described above, the NEAR Foundation is recommending that DCB wind-down USN in an orderly manner. To assist with this process, the NEAR Foundation has provided a $40m USD grant to a subsidiary of Aurora Labs – one of the NEAR ecosystem’s most prominent contributors – to set up the USN Protection Programme which is now live. Redemptions will begin once DCB has taken certain steps to ensure an orderly wind down. This Programme will be available for 1 year (until 24th October 2023). Eligible USN holders can choose to redeem their USN through the USN Protection Programme or can exchange their USN via any other available route. We’re confident this action best safeguards users and the wider NEAR ecosystem by funding the known collateral gap.

The NEAR Foundation is confident that as the ecosystem grows and matures, this type of intervention should not be required in the future. Moving forward, the NEAR Foundation expects to be working with the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) and wider community to set up a funded initiative with the remit of developing robust community standards and guardrails, in particular in relation to stablecoins, to help ensure that users are protected in situations of rapid innovation, and evolving markets and regulations.

Note: this article is a summary of and based on the assumptions in a longer article describing events relating to USN and information on the USN Protection Programme (including eligibility requirements and excluded jurisdictions incl. the US) in more detail – this can be found here


ETH-NEAR Rainbow Bridge
DEVELOPERS
August 19, 2020
There are lots of blockchains and scalability solutions, and it is hard to decide which one to use when we are building a product, especially when it means committing with the assets or data. Ideally, we don’t want to commit at all. We want to freely move our assets and data between the blockchains, or even better — run our product on several blockchains at the same time and leverage each of them. For example, we can leverage performance on one blockchain while leveraging community and ecosystem on another blockchain.

At NEAR, we do not want Ethereum developers to choose between NEAR and Ethereum and commit to only one. We want them to have the same asset on both blockchains and even have apps that seamlessly communicate across the boundary. So we built a bridge, called Rainbow Bridge, to connect the Ethereum and NEAR blockchains, and we created the lowest possible trust level one can have for an interoperability solution — you only need to trust what it connects, the NEAR and Ethereum blockchains, and you don’t need to trust the bridge itself. There is no authority outside Ethereum miners and NEAR validators.

Specifically, to trust the bridge, you need to:

Trust that Ethereum blocks are final after X confirmations. Currently, bridge implementation decides X for the app developer, but soon app developers will be able to determine X for themselves. It can be 25 if you are a typical app developer or 500 if you are super cautious;
Trust that at no time, 2/3 of the validators stake on NEAR blockchain is dishonest. Not only the bridge, but also all other applications on NEAR operate under this assumption;
Until EIP665 is accepted, you will need to trust that it is not possible to exponentially increase the minimum gas price of Ethereum blocks by more than 2x with every block for more than 4 hours. Assuming the base gas price to be 40gwei and 14bps, you can easily calculate that attempting to increase gas price by 2x will very quickly cause it to exceed any reasonable limits way before the end of 4 hours. We will explain more on where this restriction is coming from below.
Since the Rainbow Bridge does not require the users to trust anything but the blockchains themselves, we call it trustless.

This trustless model results in the following latency number for interactions across the bridge:

For ETH->NEAR interactions, the latency is the speed of producing X Ethereum blocks, which is about 6 minutes for 25 blocks;
For NEAR->ETH interactions, the latency is 4 hours, and it will be about 14 seconds once EIP665 is accepted.
Notice how significantly the latency would drop if only EIP665 was accepted. Given that many scalability solutions require up to 7 days of waiting time for interoperability, we consider our bridge rapid. The speed is only limited by the lack of EIP665 and the number of confirmations for Ethereum blocks, which is the same limitation that applies to any Ethereum-based project.

As we will expand later, our bridge does not require special permission to deploy, maintain, or use. Anyone can deploy a new bridge, use an existing bridge, or join the maintenance of an existing bridge without getting approval from anyone else, not even NEAR Foundation, which makes our bridge decentralized. 

Rainbow Bridge is also generic. Any information that is cryptographically provable on NEAR is usable in Ethereum contracts and the other way around. The following information is cryptographically provable for both blockchains:

Inclusion of a transaction in a block;
Execution of a transaction with a specific result;
The state of the contract.
Additionally, blockchain-specific information is provable, like the content of a specific block header, which in Ethereum would include things like information about the miner, and in NEAR would include information about the validators. Cryptographically-provable information allows us to build a variety of use-cases:

we can bridge fungible tokens, non-fungible tokens, or any kind of asset;
we can write Ethereum contracts that use the state of a contract or validator from NEAR;
we can do cross-contract calls across the bridge.
While the variety of the use cases looks unlimited, we currently only have out-of-box support for transferring ERC20 tokens from Ethereum to NEAR blockchain and back. However, we will add out-of-box support for other use cases based on demand. Additionally, anyone can jump in and add support to their personal use case without waiting for us or working with our codebase.

To understand why this and other properties that we listed above hold, we need to understand its design.

*If you are a developer or designer, join us Sept. 15-30, 2020 for NEAR’s open online Hack The Rainbow 🌈 hackathon.

Design
Anton Bukov developed a large portion of the Rainbow Bridge design during his work in NEAR. He is now the CTO of 1inch exchange, but he still guides the high-level design of the bridge.

The core idea behind the bridge is that it implements two light clients: 

An Ethereum light client implemented in Rust as a NEAR contract
A NEAR light client implemented in Solidity as an Ethereum contract
If you are familiar with the concept of a light client, this short outline already explains the above-listed guarantees. In short, a blockchain light client is a specification or an implementation of this specification that tracks the state of the blockchain without running heavy computation, but which can still verify the state that it tracks in a trustless way. The main focus is to be able to track and verify the state with a small amount of computation. 

We realized that the amount of computation could be so small that it might be possible to run a light client inside a contract. This was the key to making the Rainbow Bridge feasible. 

The Ethereum light client is more resource-intensive since it requires tracking every single header of the Ethereum blockchain, and it requires Ethash verification. The NEAR light client is less resource-intensive since it requires tracking only one block per epoch, where an epoch is approximately 43k blocks (this is a necessary quality since NEAR produces blocks much faster than Ethereum, which makes tracking all NEAR headers in an Ethereum Solidity contract challenging and frankly prohibitively expensive due to gas costs). Fortunately, NEAR gas limits allow more expensive computations than Ethereum. So we can run a more expensive Ethereum light client in the more computationally liberal NEAR blockchain while running a less expensive NEAR light client in the more computationally conservative Ethereum blockchain. What a fantastic coincidence! 🙂 You can find the specification of the NEAR light client here: https://nomicon.io/ChainSpec/LightClient.html

Light clients
Here is the simplified diagram of the light clients operating in the bridge:


Notice, how in addition to smart contracts that implement light clients, we have two services, called relays, that regularly send headers to the light clients. Eth2NearRelay sends every single header to the EthOnNearClient contract, while Near2EthRelay sends one header every 4 hours to the NearOnEthClient contract. For a given pair of EthOnNearClient and NearOnEthClient contracts, there could be several pairs of Eth2NearRelay and Near2EthRelay services. Each bridge maintainer can run its pair of services. These pairs of services can either compete with each other — they would try submitting the same blocks simultaneously, and only one would succeed each time, or back up each other — some services would only submit the blocks if others did not submit blocks in time. Our current implementation of the services runs in the first mode.

EthOnNearClient
EthOnNearClient as we already said is an implementation of the Ethereum light client in Rust as a NEAR contract. It accepts Ethereum headers and maintains the canonical chain, it assumes that blocks that have finalized_gc_threshold confirmations cannot leave the canonical chain, and it memorizes up to hashes_gc_threshold of the blocks from the canonical chain, where hashes_gc_threshold>=finalized_gc_threshold. By the default finalized_gc_threshold=46k which roughly corresponds to 7 days worth of headers. This is done so that the state of the EthOnNearClient does not grow endlessly. Remember that in NEAR one is required to have a certain amount of locked tokens to be able to use the state (more info), which would require a very large ever-growing number of locked tokens if we were storing the hash of every single Ethereum canonical header in a single contract. Therefore we store a limited number of hashes of Ethereum headers. As a consequence the bridge can only be used to prove events that happened within this time horizon. So if you ever start an ERC20 transfer from Ethereum to NEAR, please make sure to finish it within 7 days if it gets interrupted in the middle.

Another important nuance of EthOnNearClient is how it verifies Ethereum headers. It wouldn’t be possible to verify Ethereum PoW directly inside the contract since it would require storing the Ethereum DAG file, which would require prohibitive memory usage. Fortunately, every Ethereum block uses only a subset of the elements from the DAG file, and there is only one DAG file per Ethereum epoch. Moreover, DAG files can be precomputed for future epochs in advance. We precompute DAG files for about 4 years in advance and merkelize each of them. EthOnNearClient contract then memorizes the merkle roots of the DAG files for the next 4 years upon initialization. EthOnNearClient then only needs to receive the Ethereum header, the DAG elements, and the merkle proofs of these elements, which allows it to verify PoW without having the entire DAG file in memory. We took this approach from the EOS bridge used by Kyber network, and we even reuse some of their code. Fortunately, the Ethereum header’s verification uses only 1/3 of the max transaction gas limit and 1/10 of the block gas limit.

NearOnEthClient
NearOnEthClient is an implementation of the NEAR light client in Solidity as an Ethereum contract. Unlike EthOnNearClient it does not need to verify every single NEAR header and can skip most of them as long as it verifies at least one header per NEAR epoch, which is about 43k blocks and lasts about half a day. As a result, NearOnEthClient can memorize hashes of all submitted NEAR headers in history, so if you are making a transfer from NEAR to Ethereum and it gets interrupted you don’t need to worry and you can resume it any time, even months later. Another useful property of the NEAR light client is that every NEAR header contains a root of the merkle tree computed from all headers before it. As a result, if you have one NEAR header you can efficiently verify any event that happened in any header before it.

Another useful property of the NEAR light client is that it only accepts final blocks, and final blocks cannot leave the canonical chain in NEAR. This means that NearOnEthClient does not need to worry about forks.

However, unfortunately, NEAR uses Ed25519 to sign messages of the validators who approve the blocks, and this signature is not available as an EVM precompile. It makes verification of all signatures of a single NEAR header prohibitively expensive. So technically, we cannot verify one NEAR header within one contract call to NearOnEthClient. Therefore we adopt the optimistic approach where NearOnEthClient verifies everything in the NEAR header except the signatures. Then anyone can challenge a signature in a submitted header within a 4-hour challenge window. The challenge requires verification of a single Ed25519 signature which would cost about 500k Ethereum gas (expensive, but possible). The user submitting the NEAR header would have to post a bond in Ethereum tokens, and a successful challenge would burn half of the bond and return the other half to the challenger. The bond should be large enough to pay for the gas even if the gas price increases exponentially during the 4 hours. For instance, a 20 ETH bond would cover gas price hikes up to 20000 Gwei. This optimistic approach requires having a watchdog service that monitors submitted NEAR headers and challenges any headers with invalid signatures. For added security, independent users can run several watchdog services.

Once EIP665 is accepted, Ethereum will have the Ed25519 signature available as an EVM precompile. This will make watchdog services and the 4-hour challenge window unnecessary.

At its bare minimum, Rainbow Bridge consists of EthOnNearClient and NearOnEthClient contracts, and three services: Eth2NearRelay, Near2EthRelay, and the Watchdog. We might argue that this already constitutes a bridge since we have established a cryptographic link between two blockchains, but practically speaking it requires a large portion of additional code to make application developers even consider using the Rainbow Bridge for their applications.

Provers
What would make clients more useful is the ability to prove that something happened on a specific blockchain. For that, we implement EthOnNearProver NEAR contract in Rust and NearOnEthProver Ethereum contract in Solidity. EthOnNearProver can verify Ethereum events, while the NearOnEthProver contract can verify NEAR contract execution results. Both EthOnNearProver and NearOnEthProver contracts are implemented separately from EthOnNearClient and NearOnEthClient for multiple reasons:

Separation of concerns — clients are responsible for keeping track of the most recent blockchain header, while provers are responsible for verifying specific cryptographic information;
Scalability — since NEAR is a sharded blockchain, if a certain instance of the bridge becomes extremely popular, users will be able to scale the load by deploying multiple copies of a given prover;
Specificity — in addition to the provers described above, one can implement other kinds of provers. One could verify a contract’s state, the specific content of a header, or the inclusion of a transaction. Additionally, different implementations of provers could use different optimizations.
Currently, we have implementations only for verifying Ethereum events and NEAR contract execution results, which is sufficient for moving tokens between the blockchains. But anyone is welcome to contribute prover implementations. 

(Caption: One EthOnNearClient can have multiple provers talking to it replicated across multiple shards, while NearOnEthClient will have a single copy of each kind of the prover talking to it).

ERC20 use case
The provers enable us to build a set of contracts that allow asset transfer or cross-chain communication. However, these contracts will be very different depending on what exactly we want to interoperate across the bridge. For example, ERC20 requires an entirely separate set of contracts from ERC721 or native token transfer. Currently, the Rainbow Bridge has out-of-the-box support for generic ERC20 token transfers, and we will add more use cases in the future. In this post, we focus only on the ERC20 use case.

Suppose there is an existing ERC20 token on Ethereum, e.g., DAI. For us to move it across the bridge, we need to deploy two additional contracts:

TokenLocker Ethereum contract implemented in Solidity;
MintableFungibleToken NEAR contract implemented in Rust.
When a user wants to transfer X amount of DAI from Ethereum to NEAR, they first lock this X DAI in the TokenLocker contract, and then mint X nearDAI in the MintableFungibleToken NEAR contract. When they want to transfer some tokens back from NEAR to Ethereum, they first burn Y nearDAI in MintableFungibleToken and then unlock Y DAI in TokenLocker.

Currently, each instance of ERC20 token would require deploying a separate pair of TokenLocker/MintableFungibleToken; however, we are going to lift this restriction in the future and use the same TokenLocker for multiple ERC20 tokens. Note that if someone wants to add support of ERC721 or another type of asset transfer, they would need to implement similar Locker/Asset pair with a different external interface and internal implementation, but the high-level design would remain the same — the Locker would lock/unlock assets while Asset would mint/burn the NEAR version of this asset.

Usage flow
Users will be able to use either RainbowCLI or any app that integrates with RainbowLib, like NEAR Wallet. In rare cases, someone might choose to work with the bridge manually by calling Ethereum and NEAR contracts from their shell using low-level contract calls. Currently, we only support RainbowCLI, but we are working on RainbowLib and Wallet integrations. 

From the user perspective, the transfer of a token should be straightforward: they provide credentials, choose beneficiary and amount, and initiate the transfer either from RainbowCLI, Wallet, or other applications. After some time, the transfer succeeds, and the user receives visual confirmation. Behind the scenes however, RainbowLib will perform the following complex operations:

Suppose Alice wants to transfer X DAI to Bob on NEAR blockchain and she initiates the transfer from RainbowCLI/RainbowLib;
RainbowLib first sets an allowance to transfer X DAI from Alice to TokenLocker;
It then calls TokenLocker to grab those tokens resulting in TokenLocker emitting event “Alice locked X tokens in favor of Bob”;
RainbowLib then waits until EthOnNearClient receives the Ethereum header than contains this event, plus 25 blocks more for confirmation (see note on Ethereum finality in opening section) 
Then RainbowLib computes the proof of this event and submits it to the MintableFungibleToken contract;
MintableFungibleToken contract then verifies that this proof is correct by calling EthOnNearProver;
EthOnNearProver, in turn, verifies that the header of the proof is on the canonical chain of EthOnNearClient, and it has the required number of confirmations. It also verifies the proof itself;
MintableFungibleToken then unpacks the Ethereum event and mints X nearDAI for Bob, finishing the transfer.
Similarly, RainbowLib will be able to perform transfers of non-ERC20 tokens and do contract calls.

Hard forks
We want existing Rainbow Bridges not to break when NEAR or Ethereum protocol change is happening. And we want to be able to upgrade bridge contracts when serious performance upgrades become available, e.g., if EIP665 is accepted. However, we don’t want it to become less trustless or decentralized by introducing a centralized way of initiating the upgrade.

There is a large variety of proxy patterns developed by the Ethereum community that allow contract updates. However, we think the safest upgrade pattern is when the upgrade decision is delegated to the users themselves. An equivalent of this user-controlled upgrade for the bridge is the following:

Suppose the user is using the bridge to transfer DAI between Ethereum and NEAR. Suppose they have X DAI locked in TokenLocker and X nearDAI available on the NEAR side;
Suppose one day they receive an announcement that NEAR or Ethereum are making a protocol change and they need to migrate to bridge V2 within a week;
They transfer nearDAI back to DAI using the old bridge, then transfer DAI into nearDAI V2 using bridge V2.
This approach, however, has downsides:

Unlike regular contracts, the bridge is a more complex system that requires maintenance — someone needs to run the relays constantly, otherwise the light clients will go out of sync with the blockchains and become useless. That means we cannot ask users to manually migrate from bridge V1 to bridge V2 at their convenience. If we shut down the relays of the V1 bridge before literally everyone migrates their assets out, their assets might be permanently locked without the ability to move to V2. If we run relays for too long and wait until every user migrates we will be spending gas on the fees daily, approximately 40 USD per day at 40gwei price;
Applications that integrate with our bridge would need to be aware of the migration as they would need to switch from an old MintableFungibleToken contract to a new MintableFungibleToken contract. Some of them might need to perform this migration themselves or guide the user through it with the UI.
Given the above downsides, we have decided to implement the following upgradability option into our bridge. We will be using one of the proxy patterns to allow EthOnNearClient, EthOnNearProver, NearOnEthClient, and NearOnEthProver to automatically switch to new contract versions when they have received a proof that 2/3 of NEAR stake has voted for a new set of contracts. TokenLocker and MintableFungibleToken would not need to change, in most if not all cases, and so the upgrade will be transparent to the users and the application developers. This will not affect the bridge’s trust model since we need to trust 2/3 of the NEAR stake anyway. We will be using the same voting contract as for other governance mechanisms at NEAR. We will also try to minimize the chance of this mechanism used as a backdoor by creating a 7-day delay on the upgrade so that users can observe it, verify it, and if they don’t like it, liquidate their tokens or move them manually to a different bridge. We will, however, leave a possibility for the NEAR validators to vote for an emergency upgrade, but we do not expect to exercise it.

Incentives
The current Rainbow Bridge does not implement incentives for the maintainers who pay for the gas by relaying the headers. Major users of the bridge are expected to run their own relays, and at least one pair of relays will be run by the NEAR collective. Future versions of the bridge will have an option to charge users of the bridge who perform the transfers would have to pay for its usage in gas, native tokens, or some other means. Designing a sound incentive system is, however, tricky. The most naive approach would accumulate the tax from users of the bridge and distribute it among the maintainers who run relays. Unfortunately, such a system does not protect from death spiral scenarios, e.g. when the bridge experiences a hiccup which causes users to stop using it for some time and consequently makes maintainers lose interest in paying for gas. Our organization is taking time to develop a well-thought-through incentive system for the bridge, and meanwhile, we will maintain it at our own cost.

Trying it out and getting involved
We’ve been running Rainbow Bridge between Ropsten and NEAR TestNet for several weeks now, but we haven’t opened it to the public yet. However, you can experiment with bridge transfers by running a local NEAR node and Ganache. Please make sure to install all dependencies first, as their number is quite extensive: Rust+Wasm, Golang, pm2, node <=13. We are working on removing some of these dependencies.

If you are a developer or designer, sign up for NEAR’s open online Hack The Rainbow 🌈 hackathon. You can also get involved in our Bridge Guild where we will be discussing various integrations, new use cases, and building projects that use the bridge. Please also follow our blog as we are going to have a series of posts on bridge use cases and integrations.
NEAR’s March Town Hall Highlights
COMMUNITY
April 7, 2022

In the first quarter of 2022, the NEAR Foundation saw an explosion of activity in the ecosystem. The NEAR Town Hall is a great place for the growing global NEAR community to see these new projects in action, as well as meet, learn, teach, and push the Web3 movement and NEAR adoption forward. 

The March NEAR Town Hall explored ecosystem updates, MetaBUILD 2 winners, DAOs, and more. Here is the highlights from the NEAR Town Hall, which can be seen on NEAR’s YouTube channel or below. 

NEAR in the news amid strong ecosystem growth
In her opening remarks, NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament gave an update on the NEAR community’s Ukrainian members. As Flament explained, many of them have settled in Lisbon, Portugal, one of the NEAR ecosystem’s major European hubs. 

Flament reiterated the Foundation’s commitment to raising platform awareness, supporting projects with grants, and creating a safe path to decentralization via engagement with policymaking and regulation. She also showed some updated numbers from the NEAR community. 

Through March, the NEAR community has onboarded 40,000 students and 120 NEAR-certified teachers, while grants grew to $124 million in funds spread across 509 recipients. The ecosystem also grew from 300 to 429 projects and DAOs, 110 million transactions (up from 95 million in February), and 5.2 million wallets—a growth of 1 million wallets in a single month.  

Flament also highlighted recent news coverage on the Ukrainian fundraising effort Unchain Fund. This included a Cointelegraph feature, NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin’s Wall Street Journal op-ed, and Sail GP’s NEAR announcement.

Tune into Marieke’s talk here. 

New brand partnerships: SailGP, Unchain Fund, and more 
Chris Ghent, NEAR Foundation’s Global Head of Brand Strategy and Partnerships, went into greater detail on the SailGP announcement, and Unchain Fund. 

“Sail GP is one of the most exciting and rapidly growing sports,” said Ghent. “The goal here is to look at the property as something we can drive really deep integrations with. The league is looking to announce a DAO, so we’re looking to see that evolve over the coming weeks and months as Season 3 approaches in May. From ticketing to NFTs, this is very much a deep tech integration as much as it is a global go-to-market.”

Ghent also detailed NEAR’s ongoing partnership with privacy-preserving browser Brave—specifically, the homepage takeover for Unchain Fund and NEAR’s education initiatives. He also highlighted NEAR’s support of “Play Magnus,” a charity chess event that benefitted Unchain Fund’s humanitarian efforts in Ukraine.  

Ghent’s segment also features “Marketing by the Numbers”, with talk of 700,000,000 global impressions and explosive social media engagement. 

Catch Chris’ talk here. 

MetaBUILD 2: the largest hackathon in NEAR history
Pagoda’s Maria Yarotska, MetaBUILD 2’s Hackathon Coordinator, announced winners of the MetaBUILD 2 at the NEAR Town Hall. 

“I’m happy to tell you that we just wrapped up the largest hackathon in NEAR’s history with a $1 million prize fund and almost 4,000 participants,” said Yarotska. “I was managing the judging process while fleeing the war in Ukraine, and I’m really proud of the community that made it happen and delivered some really exciting projects.”

“Congratulations to Voog, MetaAds, and NEAR Playground,” she added. “Enjoy your bounties and don’t forget to respond to all the potential investors.”

Yarotska also encouraged teams who didn’t win this time to get involved in the next MetaBUILD hackathon. For full details on the results, read “MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon Winners” on the NEAR blog. 

You can see Maria’s talk here.

Paris Blockchain Week Summit and other upcoming NEAR events
Yadira Blocker, Experiential Marketing Lead at NEAR Foundation, spoke on NEAR’s involvement at Paris Blockchain Week Summit. NEAR speakers will be at PBWS (April 12-14th), so be sure to find them at the summit’s Discovery Stage. 

For more information on NEAR’s events at PBWS, head to nearpages.wpengine.com/pbws. 

From April 18-25th, NEAR heads to DevConnect in Amsterdam (more details to come), then Consensus 2022 in Austin (June 9-12th). 

“[Consensus] is very big for the NEAR ecosystem,” said Blocker. “We’re coming on as a Block 4 partner, and we’ll have more information to share soon.” 

Stay tuned to NEAR’s events calendar at nearpages.wpengine.com/events and watch Yadira’s talk here.

Global NEAR Education and NEAR Grants updates
Sherif Abushadi said NEAR Education continues to onboard new teachers through its global education initiatives. While 5,000 individuals registered for programs in the last week of March alone, Abushadi noted that only 120 people have become NEAR-certified. 

“Certifications are still low—it’s not easy to get NEAR-certified,” said Abushadi. “You have to build an original project. We want to maintain a high bar but also make this program more accessible. So, you’ll see some new innovations from the education team in the coming weeks and months.” 

Abushadi also spotlighted considerable growth in education fellowships in India, Nigeria, Mexico, Venezuela, and other c. 

Want to become NEAR-certified? Visit near.university/certify. 

You can see Sherif’s segment here. 

Next, Josh Daniels, Head of Funding at NEAR Foundation, spoke on the Grants team’s core funding vision and statistics. To date, the Foundation has issued 234 direct grants committed for $15.4 million in 2022. Additionally, 8 projects have raised ~$70 million, with 84 currently fundraising for a total of $350 million. 

Daniels also noted how NEAR Grants is currently exploring grant pools for select projects as part of the ecosystem fund. 

“This is something that we announced at NEARCON in October of last year,” said Daniels. “We’re very much committed to continuing to move this forward.”

Daniels also spoke on the expansion of the NEAR Regional Hub effort. Funding has been provided to four hubs to support local initiatives and projects in Kenya, the Balkans, Latin America, and Ukraine. 

Check out Josh’s talk here.

Open Web Collective on latest accelerator batch
Mildred Idada, Head of Open Web Collective, had several updates at the NEAR Town Hall, including an announcement for OWC Accelerator’s Batch 4. 

“This is going to be our biggest batch yet,” said Idada. “Just like other batches before, we want to see projects from all industries and sectors. So, if you’re focused on DeFi, NFTs, dev tooling—we want to see it all.”

She also noted how every project in the accelerator gets up to $650,000 after Demo Day. 

“That means when you join Day 1 of the program you’ll have $150,000,” Idada said. “At the close of Demo Day you’ll get another $500,000. Really, this allows you all to focus and build.”

Check out Idada’s segment for more OWC Accelerator updates here. 

Panel on NEAR’s growing DAO ecosystem
The March Town Hall also featured a panel on NEAR DAOs, moderated by sports business analyst and ESPN alum Darren Rovell. The panel featured Ben Johnson (Strategy & Commercial, SailGP), Don Ho (Founder, Orange DAO), Rev Miller (Unchain Fund), and Julian Weisser, ConstitutionDAO). 

After Rovell’s smooth introduction, SailGP’s Ben Johnson kicked things off with background on how SailGP partnered with NEAR to help create a groundbreaking sports team DAO. Unchain Funds’s Rev Miller talked about creating Unchain Fund DAO using Astro DAO, a NEAR-based DAO launchpad, to create the Unchain Fund DAO for humanitarian efforts in Ukraine. 

Next, Julian Weisser explained why Constitution DAO was important in demonstrating what is possible when people assemble around a shared goal.

“This wasn’t about saying, ‘Hey, we’re going to buy a copy of the Constitution, then we’re going to try and flip it 5 years from now, or we’re going to have a token and have the token appreciate in value,” he said. “The reason people were participating in this, including people who had never created a crypto wallet before, is that they wanted to be part of something that had emotional resonance to them. The constitution, like many artifacts, has significant cultural resonance to a lot of people—some positive, some negative.”

“There is also the fact that it’s funny,” he added. “There’s this meme component to it. You combine that with a 7-day deadline. If we had started 90 days out we wouldn’t have had the traction.”

Don Ho, Managing Director at Quantstamp, talked about why the DAO is an important structure to Orange DAO, a crypto collective formed by Y Combinator alums. 

“I think DAOs are interesting, specifically in the context of Orange DAO, because it allows the community to actually own the community’s efforts,” Ho said. “What is Orange DAO? It’s the largest collective of builders in web3. To start, we have over 1,200 YC founders who are all part of this DAO, all who want to build in web3—that represents 20% of all YC founders.”

“The craziest thing, though, is the YC community itself doesn’t have an inherent mechanism to capture the value it creates,” he added. “So, at Orange we want to create a community-owned fund and body of things that can promote this advancement of web3.”

Check out the talk here.

Read NEAR in March: Unchain Fund, SailGP, and DAOs to see what the NEAR community was up to in March.
Why NEAR’s Ecosystem Remains Primed for Growth in 2022
COMMUNITY
May 20, 2022
For many, 2022 has been a time of uncertainty. Volatility in global markets and the crypto sector has had a radical effect on business, community and creativity. While this is not the first time turbulence has crept into Web3, change can create a fear of the unknown.

But know this: one thing that will not change is NEAR’s commitment to building a lasting Open Web. 

Collectively, NEAR ecosystem members continue to create a vibrant, inclusive environment for anyone to take part in. For creators, developers or community leaders looking to develop the next generation of decentralized apps, there has never been a better time to do it. 

Let’s take a quick look at the NEAR ecosystem’s fundamentals. From capitalization to strategic partnerships and the app ecosystem, this is an exciting time to be part of the NEAR community. 

Funding & Team 
NEAR has raised significant capital from the likes of Tiger Global, Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), Republic Capital, FTX Ventures, Hashed and Dragonfly Capital, amongst others. 

This capitalization ensures that NEAR can facilitate the building of ecosystem apps with grant funds, as well as support from the NEAR Foundation, a Swiss non-profit. It also means the Foundation team can keep growing to deliver crucial support and other resources to developers and entrepreneurs in NEAR’s ecosystem. 

NEAR Foundation’s executive leadership team includes: CEO Marieke Flament (Mettle, Circle), Chris Ghent, Global Head of Brand Strategy & Partnerships (Tezos), CISO John Smith (Neilsen), CFO Yessin Schiegg (former director, BlackRock), CMO Jack Collier (Mettle, Circle) and Head of Business Development, Robbie Lim (Twitch). 

Strategic Partnerships
Since early 2022, NEAR has forged a number of strategic partnerships. Recently announced partnerships include SailGP, a global sailing league co-founded by Oracle’s Larry Ellison, and Orange DAO, a collective of over 1,000 Y-Combinator alums, who chose NEAR as their preferred Layer 1 blockchain for Web3 startups. 

Other NEAR partners include: Wharton Business School, Unchain Fund, Elliptic, Kyve, Woo Network, The Graph, and the Opera and Brave browsers. 

The good news is that more partnerships are in the works. This means more visibility for NEAR ecosystem projects, and better avenues for onboarding millions of new users onto the blockchain.

Grants & Education
NEAR’s healthy capitalization ensures that it is well-equipped to offer grants funding to individuals and teams building apps. In 2022, NEAR has awarded more than $45 million in grants to more than 800 projects, helping founders from across Web2 and Web3 reimagine their worlds. 

NEAR Education has helped more than 5,000 students learn and build on NEAR, paving the way for the next generation of apps. Through NEAR University, developers and entrepreneurs can learn NEAR developer skills (for free) through courses, guided workshops, instructional videos, and more. 

Scalability, Sustainability and Security
With Nightshade, the protocol’s unique sharding approach, NEAR’s ecosystem will be infinitely scalable by Q1 of 2023. NEAR rolled out Phase 1 of Nightshade—Chunk-Only Producers—early this year, expanding the number of validators and further decentralizing the blockchain. 

With an infinitely scalable blockchain, more developers and entrepreneurs can join the NEAR ecosystem, both easily and cheaply. These individuals and teams will be the builders of the open web future. The innovators of a more fair and decentralized internet. 

NEAR’s climate commitment is a major part of its long-term future. In 2021, South Pole, a leading low-carbon project developer, awarded NEAR its Climate Neutral label. NEAR’s energy usage is a fraction of other chains, like Bitcoin. The NEAR network consumes as much energy in 10 years as Bitcoin does every 10 minutes, creating a sustainable platform for future growth. 

Security is another major component of the NEAR ecosystem’s long-term plans. The NEAR Foundation’s security team, as well as security partners like Elliptic, are hard at work making sure decentralized applications and user wallets remain safe and secure.

From the NEAR Foundation leadership to the community leaders and the founders creating and innovating on the blockchain, NEAR is here for the long term. 


NEAR Worldwide | September 24th, 2019
COMMUNITY
September 24, 2019
We’re traveling all over the world to talk to you! Hopefully we will see you (or have already seen you) at the events we are participating in at Shanghai Blockchain week, the BlockchainUA conference in Ukraine, Korea Blockchain week, and of course DevCon in Japan. As usual, if you see any one of us, don’t be shy and come say hello! We’re always happy to talk to members of our community. Speaking of which, the ambassador program is in full swing. That means you should keep an eye out for even more events near you. If there are no events near you, you can always become an ambassador for fun and excitement. Finally, for the devs out there, we’ve totally redesigned our documentation portal. On top of that NEAR app integration is working with the ledger hardware wallet (more to come!).

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
Illia’s was in China again for the last week. He’s been talking a ton of community members in Shanghai including Math Wallet, our friends over at IOSG, and many others. He was on several panels and presented on our Nightshade Sharding Design. Thanks to everyone who came out! In other news, Max presented on Developer Experience at BlockchainUA in Ukraine and helped out (shoutout to Frol as well) with the hackathon. Here are some highlights:

Illia at Wanxiang Summit (Shanghai International Blockchain Week):

Illia at Old Friends United (Co sponsored by IOSG, NEAR, Polkadot, and CasperLab):

Max presenting at BlockchainUA:


Max and Frol helping out at the hackathon:

WRITING AND CONTENT
We’ve got a blog post for you to check out on Long Range Attacks, one of the largest unsolved problems in Proof-of-Stake blockchains. We also recently had a chance to catch up with Benny from Dapper Labs. He helped create crypto kitties, and drops some serious knowledge on creative marketing ideas in the new Fireside chat. Sasha wrote a new post on the future of Open Web. In other news: Canaan wrote a great post on migrating to NEAR from Loom SDK, and Jan from WorkbnDAO wrote a roundup of what they’ve learned in the crypto space since January 2018.

Long Range Attacks: https://pages.near.org/blog/long-range-attacks-and-a-new-fork-choice-rule/
Dapper Labs in Fireside Chat Ep 3: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ww8XDdpw2Pk
Sasha’s post on Open Web: https://hackernoon.com/power-to-the-people-how-open-web-will-reshape-the-society-in-the-next-decade-5t2wd3193
Canaan from Stardust on why they’re moving from Loom to NEAR: https://medium.com/stardustplatform/stardust-joins-the-near-protocol-beta-program-47f3c630f2e0
Jan from WorknB on what they’ve learned since January 2018 about the crypto space: https://medium.com/worknb/our-learnings-at-worknbdao-since-january-2018-1b4cc2a18606
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
Some fun stuff to announce this week. Vlad was able to get a the ledger nano hardware wallet to work with a NEAR app. (You can see it running in the pic below). Also, there’s a little peak at our documentation portal, which we’ve redesigned from scratch. Also, we’ve added two major features to core: batch transactions and System Runtime API. That means you can do stuff like creating a contract factory! Super cool.

108 PRs across 20 repos by 19 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, near-wallet, near-bindgen, and borsh.

NEW DOCS PORTAL
Proper filtering of transactions. Every transaction in a chunk is now valid.
“Delete account” added to near shell and nearlib
Generic decoder added to AssemblyScript runtime
Trust wallet integration in progress
Block queries optimized in explorer (2s -> 55ms)
Batch transactions exposed in Rust bindgen
Transaction signing in Ledger hardware wallet 🙂 (see pic above)
Batched transactions implemented
NEAR <> Ethereum bridge is underway https://github.com/nearprotocol/near-bridge 
Shipped nearlib 0.13.3
System Runtime API implemented
Contract reward added to core
Now can query block by hash, not just index in core
Continuing epic refactor in near-runtime-ts
Tests for invalid input added to BORSH
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!
If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Get Ready to SWEAT: Learn and Earn with the Most Active NEAR dApp
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 25, 2023
The NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce a new campaign with Sweat Economy that will educate individuals about the basics of Web3 – while also promoting healthier lifestyles. Users can now take part* in the latest Learn & Earn lesson in the Sweat Wallet app to earn USDT token simply by learning more about stablecoins.

This Learn & Earn feature teaches users about the basics of Web3 and crypto through interactive content and quizzes. Launching the first Learn & Earn lesson is an essential step in the collaboration between Sweat Economy and NEAR Foundation, leveraging Sweat Wallet’s 6M+ active user base to introduce more users into the NEAR ecosystem with incentives and seamless user experience.

How Users can Learn & Earn with Sweat Wallet
One of the most popular health & fitness applications, Sweatcoin has over 130 million users globally. Subsequently, the company launched Sweat Wallet last year, which runs entirely on the NEAR network and garnered 6M+ active users in less than one year’s time, since September 2022. Additionally, Sweat Wallet has been the one of the top dApps on DappRadar in terms of unique active wallets. As a result of this initial partnership, more than 20 million Near wallets were created.

Learn & Earn is the latest endeavor to take the Movement Economy to the next level. In the first lesson of our partnership, users will be rewarded with USDT by completing the What are Stablecoins? lesson and an interactive quiz. In total, 100,000 USDT will be given out as rewards in this initiative.
The community’s feedback on potential Learn & Earn topics will also be avidly sought out on Sweat Economy’s Twitter. This will provide a knowledge-compounding effect about Web3 and crypto within the SWEAT community and fitness enthusiasts in general. 

The Sweat Wallet app is available in most countries now and it is launching in the United States on 12 September 2023. 

“With the majority of our community being new to blockchain and crypto, we are excited to be enabling users to walk into crypto literally, and also giving them the opportunity to acquire invaluable knowledge of how web3 works and get rewarded for it,” said said Oleg Fomenko, co-founder of Sweat Economy. “This partnership will give 100,000 people the experience of holding Tether on Near and engaging with many more dApps active in the Near ecosystem.”

Sweat Wallet’s new Learn & Earn feature is a great way for crypto-curious to tap into the world of crypto, Web3, and NEAR. With the ability to earn tokens for learning and taking quizzes, users now have more reasons to stay engaged within the Sweat Wallet app and the NEAR ecosystem. 

Disclosure: Please note that the announcement of the partnership between NEAR Foundation and Sweat Economy is for informational purposes only and does not constitute financial advice or any other professional advice. Nothing in this announcement or in any related communication should be taken as such. The partnership is intended to offer certain benefits or services to their respective customers or clients and does not provide any investment advice, recommendation, or endorsement of any financial product or service.

Any decision to invest or engage in any financial activity should be made based on personal research and professional advice obtained from a licensed financial advisor or other qualified professional.

NEAR Foundation and Sweat Economy do not assume any liability or responsibility for any investment or financial decision made by individuals or organizations based on this announcement or any related communication.

By reading this announcement, you acknowledge and agree that you will not rely on it as financial advice and will not hold NEAR Foundation or Sweat Economy liable for any losses or damages arising from any such reliance.
NEAR DA Integrates with Polygon CDK for Developers Building Ethereum ZK Rollups
DEVELOPERS
January 18, 2024
The NEAR Foundation and Polygon Labs announced today that the latest technical integration for NEAR DA’s efficient and highly scalable data availability is now available for Polygon CDK, the tech stack that allows developers to launch their own ZK-powered Layer 2s custom-fitted to their needs.

The NEAR Data Availability layer (NEAR DA) is a highly efficient and robust data availability layer, designed to help Ethereum rollup builders simplify their network and lower costs, while ensuring they can scale like the NEAR Protocol. Polygon CDK is a simple-to-build L2 stack and a scaling solution for Ethereum that lets developers build custom L2 chains with their own configurations. Builders can enjoy customisable features (transaction costs, native token, throughput), while still enjoying familiar EVM-compatibility and trustless security. 

With the latest NEAR DA integration, rollups can benefit from cheaper data availability costs to significantly reduce their overall rollup overheads. This is especially relevant considering data publishing costs are at all-time highs for L2s.

NEAR DA paves the way for modular blockchain development
This integration empowers rollup builders on Polygon CDK to use NEAR DA as a complete, out-of-the-box modular DA solution. 

“We’re excited to make NEAR DA available to Polygon CDK rollup builders and share the benefits of cost-effective, lightning-fast data availability that scales with NEAR’s sharding for the modular Ethereum ecosystem,” said Illia Polosukhin, Co-Founder of NEAR Protocol. “This is another exciting collaboration between NEAR Foundation and Polygon Labs to drive Chain Abstraction and create better experiences for developers and users.”

As of December 2023, 231 kB of calldata on NEAR costs $0.0016, while the same calldata on Ethereum L1 costs users $140.54 and on Celestia costs users $0.046.
NEAR DA helps developers reduce costs and enhance their rollup’s reliability, while maintaining the security guarantees provided by Ethereum. Another upside to NEAR DA is that high quality projects launching an app-chain or L2 will be able to get out-of-the-box NEAR DA compatibility and support.

Develop ZK L2s within the Polygon CDK ecosystem enabled by NEAR DA
The NEAR-Polygon CDK integration allows developers building their own rollups to be part of the Polygon ecosystem, a network of blockchains which includes Polygon PoS, Polygon zkEVM and Polygon CDK-enabled blockchains. This is the first NEAR DA integration with a ZK-based L2 stack, increasing optionality for developers looking for scalable DA solutions. 

This integration also builds upon the NEAR-Polygon research collaboration to build zkWASM, a new type of prover for WASM blockchains. In the future, builders could even create zkWASM chains built on NEAR DA. Together, NEAR DA and zkWASM technology will play significant roles in scaling EVM and Wasm ecosystems in parallel while maximizing interoperability for a multi-chain future. 

Interested teams who want to work with NEAR DA are invited to fill out this form, with information about your project and how you would like to integrate with NEAR DA.
NEAR Opens the Door to More Wallets
COMMUNITY
July 29, 2022
Part of the NEAR’s mission has been to foster an ecosystem that can build and maintain the core components of a rich and vibrant Web3 ecosystem.

One of those key functions is a wallet provider. So far, to help onboard users quickly and easily to the NEAR ecosystem, the Foundation built and maintained a wallet on wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com

As NEAR continues to decentralize, it’s transitioning wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com to be a landing page for all compatible wallets operating in the ecosystem. 

The move is designed to give users more choice as they move around the Web3 space. NEAR has always believed in a multichain world, and with wallets, it takes a similar approach. 

Allowing a user from a different ecosystem to interact with the NEAR blockchain using a wallet they already know and love, is an essential part of making Web3 as easy to use as Web2. 

What happens to Wallet.NEAR.org?
As part of the transition, wallet holders on Wallet.NEAR.org will be encouraged to migrate their wallet to a new provider. The Foundation will be publishing a range of tutorials and guides for how to do that over the coming weeks.

Developers on NEAR should start the process of implementing Wallet Selector. This new modal provides a list of supported wallets, and allows dapp users to select their preferred choice of wallet.  

For developers who are currently hardcoding wallet URLs, consider implementing Wallet Selector, a link to the Github repository for implementation can be found here. 

For wallet creators, this migration presents an opportunity to onboard new users. Wallet creators will have to implement a functionality  to import an account using a private key.

Additionally, the core developer team are hosting twice a day Dev office hours if you run into any issues with Wallet-Selector integration. A link can be found here. 

As NEAR aims to have a thriving ecosystem with multiple wallets, providing a single point of integration for developers building on NEAR is vital. NEAR’s Wallet Selector fosters a rich ecosystem of wallets to thrive on NEAR Protocol and creates a simple integration experience to enable multiple wallets for DApp developers. 

What other Wallet Options are Available for NEAR? 
If you’re interested in exploring what other wallets are available in the ecosystem, there are plenty of options. In fact, there are more than 30 wallet providers compatible with NEAR. 

Check out AwesomeNEAR for a list of wallets compatible with the NEAR ecosystem. 

Stay tuned for more updates on the transition.
Web3’s Leading Ladies: NEAR Foundation Honors 2023’s Women Changemakers
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 29, 2023
As Collision 2023 rolls on, NEAR Foundation announced the ten winners of the Women in Web3 Changemakers award. These exceptional women, chosen from a pool of 200 nominees worldwide, underline the significant contributions women can make throughout the Web3 ecosystem.

“These Changemakers show us that together we can make a positive difference and shape the collective good of Web3,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. “We must continue to help one another and nurture a strong, international community that includes both men and women.”

The Women in Web3 Changemakers competition illuminates the groundbreaking work of influential women in the Web3 space. As this platform appreciates the significant strides made by these remarkable women, it’s important to recognize the unique journeys of all ten winners, each of whom has contributed to the evolution of the blockchain industry.

Women behind the success of Web3 honored at Collision
Candidates for the Women in Web3 Changemakers award come from all corners of the globe, each making unique marks on the Web3 ecosystem in their own respective ways. Each of the following women made the final top ten because they’ve carved out a niche, advocated for transformative solutions, and been a part of breakthrough blockchain initiatives.

The full list of winners includes:

Emily Rose Dallara: Web3 Leadership Coach and Podcast Producer
Janine Grainger:  Co-founder and CEO, Easy Crypto AI
Bridget Greenwood: Founder, The Bigger Pie
Cathy Hackl: Chief Futurist and Chief Metaverse Officer at Journey
Erica Kang: Founder and CEO, KrptoSeoul
Irina Karagyaur: Founder and Director, BQ9
Veronica Korzh: Co-founder and CEO, Geekpay
Zoe Leavitt: Founder and CEO, Glass
Alana Podrx: Founder and CEO, Eve Wealth
Yaliwe Soko: Chair, United Africa Blockchain Association
Handpicked by public vote from a pool of hundreds of applications, these Changemakers were assessed on criteria of inclusion, influence, and innovation. Each woman demonstrated the ability to drive societal good, make a substantial impact in the Web3 community, and contribute to critical projects, uplifting the global female presence in the Web3 landscape.

“The Changemakers show that we can forge our own path into the ecosystem and create a collective narrative that has the power to break down barriers to entry and make Web3 more inclusive for everyone,” Flament continues. “I’m extremely honored to be championing this initiative and to spotlight these exceptionally talented women.”

The diverse journeys of Women in Web3 Changemakers
All ten winners of the Women in Web3 Changemakers awards come from a variety of backgrounds, geographies, and skill sets. Yaliwe Soko, for instance, is championing opportunities in Web3 to alleviate poverty and provide opportunities across Africa. Others like Cathy Hackle are icons in spheres like the metaverse.

Erica Kang, meanwhile, spearheads KryptoSeoul and was responsible for  BUIDL ASIA 2022 conference, attended by ETH co-founder Vitalik Buterin and NEAR Protocol co-founder Illia Polosukhin. And through her organization The Bigger Pie, Bridget Greenwood is building an entire support ecosystem to advance both women and minorities in blockchain and crypto.

Another changemaker, Emily Rose Dallara, is a Web3 leadership coach and podcast producer, who uses a Holistic Growth Coaching method to help overwhelmed leaders thrive — without the burnout. Helping to make digital assets more accessible, Kiwi-born Janine Grainger is the co-founder and CEO of Easy Crypto, a simple and secure way for anyone to get involved in crypto. Irina Karagyaur, the founder and director of BQ9, is working to turn great ideas into even better Web3 products through her crypto-fintech boutique advisory firm. 

With Geekpay, co-founder and CEO Veronica Korzh is streamlining and securing digital payments without the stress and need for long wallet addresses. Zoe Leavitt, the founder and CEO of Glass, has set up shop in the loyalty space, allowing customers to level up their nights out by earning rewards from their favorite alcohol brands. And Alana Podrx, the founder and CEO of Eve Wealth, has created a community of women who share portfolios, co-invest, and support each other in self-guided wealth management through peer-to-peer learning. 

Celebrating the individual successes and collective efforts of these Changemakers reflects the massive impact and influence of women in Web3. From Africa to Asia, from the metaverse and marketing to crypto media and education, each winner has blazed her unique trail and is impacting the Web3 ecosystem, inspiring both men and women to do the same.

“I’m grateful for the hundreds of nominations we received from peers and employers who took the time to highlight the many achievements that the global female workforce has made to their organizations,” Flament continues. “By casting their ballot, the international community has shown that the contributions of women are being noticed.” 

By celebrating the contributions of these Changemakers, the NEAR Foundation underscores its commitment to diversity, inclusion, and innovation in the Web3 space. As females in crypto continue to make strides, it’s vital to recognize and appreciate the efforts of women who are paving the way for an equitable and inclusive future in Web3 and beyond.
NEAR Foundation Joins Forces with Mirae Asset for the Next Leap in Web3 Finance
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 8, 2023
In a pivotal partnership for the blockchain industry, NEAR Foundation is joining forces with Mirae Asset — a subsidiary of Asia’s largest financial group Mirae Asset Global — to help bridge the gap between trad-fi and Web3. This collaborative endeavor will thrust Web3 into the spotlight in the traditional finance market in South Korea and the larger Asian region, driving innovation and growth in the sector.

With the guidance of the NEAR Korea Hub, this partnership places NEAR Foundation and Mirae Asset at the helm of the Web3 business domain. Together, they will conduct in-depth research and foster collaboration on blockchain technology, laying a robust foundation for the use of Web3 by the traditional financial industry in the region.

Simultaneously, global joint events are in the pipeline to bolster brand visibility, coupled with a planned mutual support system. This system will fortify the Web2/Web3 business network, carving out a strong pathway for the integration of these technologies.

NEAR and Mirae Asset: propelling finance into the Web3 age
NEAR is a global Layer 1 protocol with a strong emphasis on usability (NEAR Protocol). With its new Blockchain Operating System (BOS) feature FastAuth, NEAR offers a user-friendly gateway into the world of Web3, mirroring the simplicity of email login. By presenting accessible solutions through BOS, it eases the transition for traditional businesses and developers. This ease of entry into Web3 fosters an environment conducive to the growth of innovative financial services.

“Our agreement with Mirae Asset will provide a platform for us to showcase the capabilities of NEAR Protocol and its powerful Blockchain Operating System to help transform the finance industry,” Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “We look forward to supporting this important partnership and helping to play a key role in transforming the future of Web3 finance.”

A major financial player partners with NEAR Foundation
Entering into an alliance with NEAR Foundation, Mirae Asset demonstrates its mission to transform into a top-tier global investment bank. Providing standout services in corporate finance, trading, wealth management, and private equity investments, it’s redefining the finance industry.

“We will continue to innovate and develop the foundational blockchain technology that underpins the Web3 industry,” said Ahn In-sung, Head of the Digital Division at Mirae Asset. “We will actively collaborate with exceptional blockchain communities like NEAR Protocol to incorporate the technology into our global business.”

Mirae Asset’s pursuit of innovation is embodied in the creation of the “Next Finance Initiative” (NFI). Teamed with South Korea’s key players like SK Telecom and Hana Financial Group, this partnership signals an intriguing expansion for the NEAR ecosystem. Another feature of this partnership involves NEAR Foundation joining the practical discussion body via the working group.
The NEAR Korea Hub, responsible for business expansion across Korea and other Asian regions, has been instrumental in forming this partnership. The Hub views this alliance as a significant leap showcasing NEAR Protocol’s potential in the financial industry.

“NEAR Foundation is expanding the horizons of Web3 industry by onboarding leaders in the gaming industry (Kakao Games Bora, WeMade, and Netmarble) and Mirae Asset, a pioneer in the financial industry,” said Scott Lee, General Manager, NEAR Korea Hub, commented. “NEAR Foundation will continue to expand its reach through collaborations with industry leaders to actively drive the transformation of the existing financial paradigm.”

In essence, this alliance between NEAR Foundation and Mirae Asset marks a turning point in the realm of Web3 finance, firmly rooted in the innovative and scalable infrastructure of the NEAR Protocol, NEAR Foundation, and ecosystem.
The NEAR MainNet is now Unrestricted and Decentralized
COMMUNITY
October 13, 2020
NEAR was instantiated to help builders. This means helping them to create meaningful applications with the power to impact real lives by making those apps secure enough to hold substantial value but as easy to use as anything on today’s web. It also means helping them to get to market faster by making applications as easy to build, test and deploy as anything on today’s web. 

Today, the validators who run the NEAR Protocol and the tokenholders who delegated to them voted to advance the network into its final stage of MainNet. This transition to “Phase II” is the most significant milestone in NEAR’s history and the most important one to drive its future.

In this post, you will learn what this means, what the path forward looks like and how you can get involved.

What this Means
The transition to Phase II occurred because NEAR Protocol’s validators indicated via an on-chain voting mechanism that they believe the network is sufficiently secure, reliable and decentralized to remove transfer restrictions and officially allow it to operate at full functionality. Accounts that are subject to lockup contracts will now begin their unlocking timeline.

The shift to Phase II means 3 important things:

Permissionlessness: With the removal of transfer restrictions, it is now possible for anyone to transfer NEAR tokens and participate in the network. Specifically, it is now possible for anyone to send or receive tokens, to create accounts, to participate in validation, to launch applications or to otherwise use the network… all without asking for anyone’s permission. This means individuals, exchanges, defi contracts or anyone else can utilize the NEAR token and the NEAR network in an unrestricted fashion.
Voting: The community-operated NEAR Protocol successfully performed its first on-chain vote, indicating that community governance is operational and effective. The exact mechanism will change going forward but this is a substantial endorsement of the enthusiasm of the community to participate.
Decentralization: The dozens of validators who participated in the vote were backed by over 120 million tokens of delegated stake from over a thousand individual tokenholders and this vote indicates that they believe the network is sufficiently secure and decentralized to operate freely.
In essence, NEAR is now fully ready to build on, ready to use, and ready to grow to its full potential. While Bitcoin brought us Open Money and Ethereum evolved that into the beginnings of Open Finance, we finally have access to a platform with the potential to bridge the gap to a truly Open Web.

Day Zero: What Comes Next
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos likes to tout his “day 1 philosophy”, in which the company is meant to operate as if it’s only the first day along the journey of serving customers. We can correct their off-by-1 error by acknowledging that NEAR is now in Day 0… that the network is finally and fully out in the world but there is a lot of room to grow from here.

In the short term, the next step for the network is for validators to implement a system upgrade which will enable protocol inflation and allow stakers to receive rewards for their activities to help secure the network. The code for this upgrade is expected to be released on Monday October 19 in order to give the community plenty of time to finish claiming tokens and set up their delegation to stakers. After that, it usually takes anywhere from 1-2 days for the normal upgrade process to be adopted among validators. Once this happens, the network’s supply will inflate at 5% annually, an increase which is offset (to a varying degree) by the burning of transaction fees.

In the medium term, there are a number of key research and development areas that the team is excited to explore, while acknowledging that the ultimate operation and growth of the network is no longer entirely in any one group’s hands.

Sharding: NEAR currently operates with a single shard because that provides more than enough capacity to serve a very high degree of load. Transitioning to multiple shards is unlikely to be required anytime soon, so there is an opportunity to improve the technology. The current sharding spec is implemented in a 4 shard testnet and a variation of it runs on an independent network which is run by a Guild. While this is a good start, the NEAR team continues to improve the spec so the next version of this is expected to be released by the end of the year and implemented in the first half of next year.
Ethereum Bridge: The Rainbow Bridge, which will likely be the first fully permissionless bridge between Ethereum and a performant Layer 1 protocol, is operating across TestNets while work continues to improve reliability and usability for MainNet operation. It is likely that this will be able to roll out on MainNet before the end of the year and that this will occur in several stages that follow progressive decentralization.
EVM: Developers can already run EVM code using a smart contract which has been deployed since February but it is currently gas intensive and clunky. One effort over the next few months is targeted at implementing precompiled EVM, which would allow Ethereum developers to easily drop their existing contracts onto NEAR and offer significant performance at the same time.
Tooling: The tooling which supports building on and using the platform still has a wide range of improvements to come. Wallets like the NEAR wallet will continue to improve their delegation, staking, voting and other capabilities which support full network functions for everyday people. For developers, improvements in everything from examples to indexers will help smooth out the experience of developing on this platform even more.
If you’re interested in actively following or participating in research initiatives, join the public research calls, held weekly. You can see this and other engineering-related calls posted on the Events Calendar.

NEAR’s next steps are not just about the network — this is a global decentralized project and the growth of that ecosystem is the real story from this point forward. This means:

Empowering Community Leaders: The Guild Program is one of the most visible steps to empower people who want to build communities around NEAR with resources and support but it’s not the only one. We’re all excited to see what the community comes up with over the coming months and thrilled to see how groups are beginning to support each other.
Funding: The NEAR Foundation has committed to providing funding for the community by supporting a $1.5M+ community fund (with additional early funding from Coinlist), a grants program for infrastructure and a series of investment grants in projects building atop decentralized technologies. Expect all of these to roll out through the end of the year.
Governance: No decentralized network has reached maturity without navigating a few storms. We’ve all been impressed with how the community has stepped forward to take charge during the last few weeks and how communication and coordination has organically evolved to serve the needs of the network. As things progress further, we’ll do everything we can to make sure all stakeholders are heard and that the future path of the network is directed by a balanced group of participants. The validator-led voting process was important for Phase II but future governance will allow the community a more direct voice and that’ll be important whenever the first (inevitable) community crisis emerges.
What You Should Do Now
NEAR is “open for business” but, like Ethereum before it, the platform is just the substrate onto which you can apply your creativity. It’s secure storage, rapid compute, smooth payment rails and composable components that add up to unstoppable applications… but what applications get created is entirely up to you.

NEAR has deliberately focused on building a platform that can support the entire range of decentralized use cases, whether that’s providing stablecoins to people across the globe, building decentralized financial tooling on chain, creating marketplaces to improve gaming experiences, tokenizing investment assets or more because each of these use cases benefits from the tooling, liquidity and components produced by the others.

This breadth of possibilities gives NEAR access to the largest possible opportunity set and there’s something for everyone in the ecosystem to do now:

Developers: This is all for you! The NEAR platform still needs polishing in many places (which you can help with…) but it’s production ready and you can build production ready apps. If you’re just getting started with decentralized apps, check out the New to NEAR? docs. And join https://near.chat to get in the conversation.
Tokenholders: You can help the network substantially in a number of different ways. If you like to test-drive new technology, look for new applications built on NEAR where you can play with them and maybe spot a breakout idea. This could, for example, be a game for fun or a decentralized finance app which helps solve real problems with liquidity or risk management. Or, if you aren’t sure, you can delegate to a validating pool and let your tokens work for you by participating in securing the network and earning rewards for doing so.
Entrepreneurs: Whether you’re at the first step of your journey or are looking back at a well-worn path, the Open Web Collective can help you make sure you’re leveraging not just the best of decentralized technology but also the best support for building and fundraising along the way.
Validators: NEAR allows a unique level of innovation for validators. Whereas you previously could only compete based on how much you charge delegators for your services, NEAR’s flexible delegation contracts allow a wide range of experimentation. If you want to stay on top of what’s happening with validators, I recommend checking out the NEAR Validator Advisory Board (NVAB) and following their meetings to stay in the loop. If you’re already a validator, starting a Guild or building your community presence in other ways (by giving back to the community!) will be crucial for attracting delegation. Check out the Guilds for a path and help doing so.
Designers, product people, marketers, academics, sales people, investors, accountants and, yes, lawyers: This ecosystem needs your help! Ethereum’s early years inspired a generation of people to try their hand at building successful businesses using decentralized tools but the technology was too early and the ecosystem never fully developed. For everyone who, like us, believes that the technology is finally at a place where we can cross the usability gap and build apps real people will use, please consider joining or starting a Guild so you can get in on the ground floor of the next wave forward.
Finally, what you see now is just the beginning. The pace at which UX is improving across developer tooling, platform components, apps and everything in between is astonishing. Blink and you’ll miss it — so I recommend you stay in touch via our newsletter and check back often. 

Day 0 is just the beginning. Let’s build great things together 🚀 

Special Thanks
It’s hard to make something complex. It’s even harder to make something simple that works. Everyone who has been involved in the NEAR project so far is an absolute superhero for putting in sleepless nights, stretching to design the impossible and sacrificing so much to bring this to reality.

Thank you to everyone who has built the core protocol from scratch, pushed 5am commits, answered community questions, driven creative new hackathons, introduced fabulous new teammates, spread the word, spoke on stage, hacked on dev tools, spoke to founders, security reviewed, made very #berry memes, fired up examples, wrangled documentation, shipped update emails, rubber ducked, double (triple) checked it all, drafted press releases, dove into governance, revised doc markups, wrote test coverage, backed this idea before it was fully formed, argued passionately for improvements or on behalf of the community, provided operational oversight, lived in spreadsheets, fleshed out documentation, hopped on late night calls, slacked infinite threads, parsed analytics, spun up (and down) nodes, reviewed pull requests, organized offsites, and ultimately believed in — and materially supported — what we’re working to accomplish with NEAR.
Flux’s Prediction Market Could Be The Key To Decentralized Insurance Markets
CASE STUDIES
February 23, 2021
Flux is a decentralized, open-source prediction market engine launched in 2020. Like its competitors Augur, Omen, and Gnosis, Flux provides a platform for users to purchase the right to collect payment if a future event occurs. In other words, it allows users to place bets on all kinds of future events and provides a market for anyone to buy and sell those bets as the event draws closer and the outcome becomes more certain.

Making predictions is an interesting use case, but hidden within is a much, much bigger one. The multi-trillion dollar insurance industry shares the same functional framework as a prediction market bet: 1) pool funds, 2) evaluate event outcomes, and 3) pay funds to those who hold valid payout claims. The Flux protocol contains all the decentralized infrastructure for every one of these insurance industry functions, and its potential is incredible.

But before we get to possibilities with insurance, let’s look at some prediction market use cases that are already working.

Prediction markets as financial instruments
A highly publicized use case has been election predictions, and indeed there’s evidence that prediction markets tend to give better prediction results than most voter polling methods. That’s a nice benefit, but we are interested in the asset itself. As an election draws closer it may become clear that one candidate is ahead, and the market price of that candidate’s claim will climb. This allows someone holding that bet to exit their position and realize a profit before the election occurs. In this way, a bet on a candidate becomes a financial instrument with a stable or volatile price.

Sports betting is another common case that’s available on Flux today. This is another multi-billion dollar industry in its own right, with highly sophisticated oddsmakers traditionally employed by casinos or online companies.

A traditional sports betting floor
Advantages of decentralization
Prediction markets have been around for a while, but decentralized versions offer big advantages over traditional centralized services. Blockchains ensure untamperable records, permissionless access, and direct payments without possibility of censorship or third party control. Oracles provide verification of whether or not the event occurred in a number of tamper-resistant ways. Decentralized markets offer permissionless access to users worldwide. The permissionless nature of these markets also allows anyone to create new markets for events they are interested in. Many rent-seekers and middlemen are cut out of the process, reducing costs. Decentralization allows democratization of any financial assets imaginable. 

Flux and NEAR blockchain technology
Flux is built on the NEAR blockchain, which offers some remarkable advantages over other ERC20-based prediction markets. Flux is highly scalable, with a system that can process transactions at a speed of over 80,000 per second. It’s cost-effective, with transaction fees of about $.01 USD. NEAR also allows easy integration with existing apps, and of course NEAR will soon have a bridge allowing trustless swaps with ERC 20 assets. Assets on Flux can operate as L1 NEAR assets or L2 ERC20 assets. None of Flux’s competitors can come close to these performance and interoperability features.

Steps of prediction market bets and claims
Let’s take a look at the basic steps involved in using a decentralized prediction market. First, the user buys a right to collect a payout. Then the event occurs and is verified by oracles. Then the contract automatically makes the payout to the user’s account.

 

 

Steps of a decentralized prediction market purchase and payout
The potential of decentralized insurance
Worldwide insurance premiums are a staggeringly huge market. They currently represent about $5 trillion USD per year, which is a little over 5% of worldwide GDP spent on insurance. The world’s largest insurance provider, Allianz SE, has over $1.1 trillion USD in assets, and many other companies are close behind.

Refer to the diagram above and you’ll notice that the process of buying and claiming a prediction market bet follows the same basic steps found in insurance. The user purchases insurance, makes a claim, has it approved, and receives payment. Incorporated in these steps is everything needed for:

Property insurance
Life insurance
Health insurance
Commercial insurance
Liability insurance
Decentralized insurance has the potential to expand the worldwide insurance market even further by bringing policies to people who currently have less access to financial services, while cutting out expensive middlemen such as brokers, adjusting agents, and asset managers.

The new technology of oracles
What’s standing in the way? Mostly just time and getting more projects built, but probably the biggest opportunity for improvement is oracles. Decentralized insurance is already available for easily-verified events such as crypto contract hacks and flight delays. That’s because a big part of insurance is verifying whether the payout event (accident) has taken place, which is the job of oracles. 

Decentralized oracles are an area of intense research. How do you verify whether a house was destroyed in a hurricane if you are across the globe or relying on algorithms? 
The Flux protocol relies on some game theory to incentivize honest behavior. If someone makes a claim to an outcome, they are required to stake a specified amount of stablecoin. Any person or group can stake an equal amount of coins to dispute this outcome. If it’s a clear violation, anyone can step in and get paid to keep the claimant honest.

If the amount staked in dispute is at least as much as the claimant has staked, the protocol owner has to investigate and make a judgment on the outcome. The winner of the dispute gets to keep the other party’s coins. This is not necessarily a perfect or highly scalable solution, but it is one that works well in the vast majority of insurance use cases, and is easily adapted to nearly any area of insurance. The system promises to work well for the time being as oracle solutions continue to improve.

The Flux AMM platform as an insurance market
Let’s say you now have a claim. The right to claim an event-based payout, whether it has occurred or not, is a valuable asset. Flux comes with its own automated market maker platform as the infrastructure for buying and selling these kinds of rights. It’s a platform directly comparable to AMMs like Uniswap, Sushiswap, and Curve (some of the highest-valued projects in DeFi). The AMM platform opens up possibilities for using claims (possible future payments) as borrowing collateral or tradable assets in their own rights. Remember that the possibility of a payout may change over time as an event becomes more or less likely to occur. Someone holding a policy just before an obvious payout event (such as a flood or looming crop shortage) could liquidate their policy and access the value before the destructive event even begins. 

The Flux AMM platform also offers unprecedented freedom for people to create new kinds of insurance products according to their particular needs. Any firms, governments, organizations, professionals, or individuals can open their own custom markets for any future outcome. 

Flux represents next-generation financial services infrastructure
Flux is a scalable open-source protocol enabling markets for any asset, commodity, or event. Its asset prices are always self-updating with new information, and prices are difficult to manipulate.

Think of all the assets available on Uniswap and imagine a fully-realized marketplace of tradable insurance-based assets. You’ll be able to buy insurance, set up new markets, and trade on your special knowledge of likely future events. It’s still got a long way to go, but all the basic pieces are here and the system works.

If this sparks your imagination, try it out yourself. Setting up a market on Flux is easier than you may think and the best way is to learn by doing. Reach out to Flux on their Twitter, or join their Telegram group.
NEAR Protocol Partners with Mask Network
COMMUNITY
March 16, 2021
If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. If you want to be part of the NEAR community, join our Discord or Telegram channels or follow NEAR on Twitter. 
NEAR Protocol is happy to announce a strategic partnership with Mask Network. NEAR Protocol and Mask Network will cooperate between their base layer technologies as well as on the application front. The Rainbow Bridge, the NEAR EVM, NEAR Drops, and other key components are expected to be integrated when launched, in order to accelerate widespread adoption and engagement with NEAR Protocol and the Mask Network.

The cooperation will start with a joint bounty, allowing developers from both communities to join forces and explore new opportunities at the intersection of these two protocols. The first bounty will be to facilitate the integration of the NEAR Wallet into the Mask Network, creating a solid foundation for future deployment of more NEAR based applications.

The NEAR Wallet is NEAR Protocol’s non-custodial web wallet, using local storage on the users computer to store private keys in an open file format. This design is meant to provide more wallet options, and makes it easier to expand the NEAR developer community, while also marketing the determination of NEAR Protocol and Mask Network to support one another in creating a vibrant decentralized web and finance ecosystem.

The product idea of the Mask Network is a natural fit with the mission of NEAR Protocol. Both want to create a more free and open web, allowing users to control their own funds, data, and identity. This bounty is just the starting point of cooperation between the two projects. We have already planned a series of deeper integration projects and joint ventures that will be released to our communities over time. If you are interested in the Mask Network and NEAR Protocol, come join us!

The details of the Bounty are outlined here.

About NEAR Protocol

NEAR exists to accelerate the world’s transition to open technologies by growing and enabling a community of developers and creators. NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity with the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands. NEAR’s unique account model allows developers to build secure apps that consumers can actually use similarly to today’s web apps, something which requires multiple second-layer add-ons on other blockchains.

About Mask Network

Mask Network is the core product of Dimension, which is positioned to become the bridge that connects internet users from Web 2.0 to Web 3.0. The foundational technology of Mask Network is a peer to peer encrypted messaging application, with new functions continuously being created around this foundation. We at Mask Network are strong believers in the ownership economy. People should own what they produce, people should own their data, their attention and the virtual space they choose to contribute to.

Mask Network integrates decentralized social messaging, borderless payment network, and decentralized file storage and sharing to provide a safe and convenient portal for users to jump right into the continent of decentralized finance and then the new world of Web 3.0.

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. 
NEAR’s Road to Decentralization: A Deep Dive into Aurora
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 7, 2022
One of NEAR Foundation’s core missions has been to create a network that empowers users to take control of their data, their finances, and the tools to govern. 

In the web3 world, this idea can be neatly summed up by one word: decentralization. This is a process whereby control and the tools to create and reimagine everything from business to creativity are progressively handed over to the contributors. 

The NEAR Foundation has been steadily progressing in this mission, from the growing number of validators to the flourishing DAO community. But NEAR isn’t alone on this journey. It relies on projects in and around the ecosystem to help accelerate this mission. Enter Aurora.    

This project, started originally by a core team of NEAR developers, is now helping build bridges to other ecosystems and accelerating the adoption and decentralization in equal measure. 

A Bridge Between NEAR and Ethereum
Built by NEAR Inc’s core team (now Pagoda), Aurora is an Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) smart contract platform that creates a bridge between Ethereum and NEAR. An EVM, for those who don’t know, is best thought of as a decentralized computer that allows anyone to create a smart contract on the Ethereum network.

Although an EVM, Aurora works on top of the NEAR blockchain, giving it all of the benefits of the NEAR blockchain: super fast, incredibly secure, and infinitely scalable transactions. That’s possible thanks to Nightshade, NEAR’s unique sharded protocol design that allows the network to process thousands of transactions per second without skipping a beat. 

With Aurora, the idea is that anyone building Ethereum projects can make use of the NEAR’s speed and low fees. The Aurora EVM allows developers to make use of NEAR’s blockchain, while the platform uses NEAR’s Rainbow Bridge to transfer assets. 

Let’s look at Rainbow Bridge, as this protocol is where things got started. 

Aurora and Rainbow Bridge
NEAR’s core developer team wanted to create a smart contract that would perform the function of allowing tokens to flow freely between Ethereum, NEAR, and other projects. The team’s vision: create a tool that allowed assets to exist on both NEAR and Ethereum, creating a multi-chain Web3 user experience.

To do this, the team would need to create a bridge that would be completely decentralized: anyone could use it, anywhere, and at any time—without permission. The developers were able to build the bridge and now, if one wants to move an Ethereum-based token—say, a stablecoin like DAI—and use it on NEAR’s network, they can do so via the Rainbow Bridge. 

Some of NEAR’s core team that had helped create Rainbow Bridge split off to continue their work. The result: Aurora—a project that now offers the bridge and a whole host of other features designed to create a global network of open-source Web3 projects. 

Aurora partnerships
Other projects working to improve cross-chain accessibility have since taken notice of Aurora’s work and become partners. One example is Allbridge, an application that unites scattered blockchains by means of global interoperability across all networks. Since Allbridge partnered with Aurora, it has launched a bridge between Aurora and Terra, an open-source stablecoin network and one of the biggest cryptocurrencies by market cap. 

Aurora is also playing a big part in decentalized finance (DeFi) growth in the NEAR ecosystem. DeFi refers to the peer-to-peer financial services built on public blockchains, and is one of the most active crypto sectors on NEAR. The NEAR community has been working tirelessly to make it easier for DeFi apps and tools to leverage the protocol’s developer-friendly advantages. 

One way that Aurora has made this process much smoother and more decentralized is through its extremely low fees (so low, they’re negligible), which it achieves by using the NEAR network. A constant gripe from users about Ethereum-based DeFi products is that the fees are often too high, creating a barrier to entry for developers and end users, and creating a hurdle to Web3’s mainstream adoption. 

Aurora adoption is growing so much that the team released Aurorascan, its very own version of Etherscan, the most popular Ethereum block explorer and analytics platform. Aurorascan has all of Etherscan’s features set and reliability, while giving developers the tools and data to see how Aurora’s EVM functions. 

But Aurora goes beyond DeFi. The platform is also integral to the NEAR community’s NFT projects, which have exploded in popularity since 2020. When the Aurora team spoke at this year’s ETHDenver conference in February, and they were joined by members of Endemic, Chronicle, and TENKBay—all NFT platforms that have launched on the Aurora EVM and NEAR Protocol.  

Future Aurora developments
So what does Aurora have up its sleeve for the future? Well, Aurorascan is still in beta mode, so more features will be added to that platform. And the team is also working to build new bridges, which will be announced in the coming months. 

There are also plans to allow NFTs to be able to hop between Ethereum and NEAR. You can keep up to date on all things Aurora on its Medium page.  

All this and more will help those wanting to take advantage of NEAR’s super fast and extremely cost-effective network, and help the dream of a truly decentralized world become a reality. 
NEAR Sharding Rollout and Aurora IDO Postmortems
DEVELOPERS
December 3, 2021
Between November 8th and November 19th, multiple incidents related to Near Inc RPC services caused severe degradation of user experience. The Near Inc team takes this kind of issue seriously and aims to continually improve its services.  

The following postmortems on the NEAR sharding rollout and Aurora IDO summarize the incidents. They provide root cause analyses, mitigations, and the future improvements we are working on to prevent similar incidents from happening again.

Incident 1 – November 10th (12:00 UTC – 15:00 UTC) NEAR Inc RPC Service degraded during Boca Chica Aurora token sale
During the Boca Chica Aurora token sale, community members reported an inability to access the service to buy the Aurora lottery ticket. The cause: too much load on the RPC endpoint. Due to higher than expected demand during the sale, the RPC became overloaded in the EU region.

We’ve increased our RPC capacity by rolling out new RPC nodes across all regions. In particular, we’ve bumped up the number of nodes in the EU region. In the meantime, we’ve made and are working on several other improvements to increase the RPC throughput and reliability.

Incident 2 – November 16th (19:00 UTC – 19:30 UTC) Near Inc Services down due to global cloud provider outage
All Near Inc services stopped working to some extent for a short period of time including RPC, Indexers, Explorer, and Wallet. Issues were reported from across the community and internally all alerts started to fire. 

We rapidly identified the root cause: an outage affecting the load balancing stack hit our cloud provider, which impacted RPC and therefore made all other dependent services unavailable as well. Unfortunately, there was no quick mitigation we could do on our side. We had to wait for the cloud provider to resolve the issue to get our services operational again. The cloud provider was able to quickly detect and restore service in under 20 minutes.


Currently, we use one cloud provider for the services we host. We do this for simplicity of maintenance. Due to the decentralized nature of NEAR, anyone is able to run their own RPC services, providing alternative ways to access the network. Making it easy for users to switch RPC nodes is something that both wallets and developer tooling will be looking into. 

To prevent issues like this from happening to Near Inc services, we are also looking into implementing a multi-cloud deployment with client-side fallbacks in case the primary service goes down.

Incident 3 – November 17th(03:00 UTC – 19:00 UTC)Near Inc services degraded including Skyward during Aurora IDO, Wallet, and Explorer
During the sharding rollout on mainnet we encountered two issues caused by state splitting as part of the protocol upgrade: 1) high disk usage affecting the RPC service, and 2) the inability of archival nodes to split state within one epoch.

Let’s discuss them separately.

The first issue was caused by high disk usage (IOPS) during the process of splitting state. Even though the RPC traffic was very low across the network, performance of our RPC nodes drastically deteriorated and we observed that RPC latency in some regions jumped from 1s to 60s. 

This was not a capacity problem: each RPC request takes longer to respond and adding more nodes wouldn’t help much. Most services were almost unavailable, but due to client side retries they could be used with high response times. Most affected users were in Europe and Asia.

The second issue was caused by archival nodes being unable to finish state splitting within one epoch as expected and, therefore, they got stuck when the new epoch arrived. This issue arose unexpectedly, as we ran simulations beforehand for regular RPC for the sharding upgrade using mainnet data. The edge case we missed was running the simulation on archival nodes, which took significantly longer. The issue had not been previously identified on testnet, as archival data is smaller there. 

The failure of archival nodes affected all services depending on them: Indexer, Explorer, Wallet, Aurora, etc. The Infrastructure team was able to rapidly redirect traffic to non-archival nodes as a patch until archival nodes were restored. We waited until archival nodes finished splitting their states, and once the first node synced we generated a backup and started the rest of the archival nodes from there. This was a failure of not testing for all cases and we plan to invest more time and effort in making sure releases go as smoothly as previous ones.

Some Final Thoughts
It’s important to note that, despite all the aforementioned incidents, the network was always functioning as expected and only RPC services were affected, causing dependent services to have issues.

We want to be transparent about all past and future issues we face. We believe the community members will understand that “NEAR stands for iteration” and we are doing our best to prevent such incidents from happening in the future.
Long Range Attacks, and a new Fork Choice Rule
DEVELOPERS
September 10, 2019
In this blog post we briefly discuss the concept of long range attacks, which is considered to be one of the biggest unsolved problems in Proof-of-Stake protocols. We then cover two solutions presently used in live or proposed protocols, namely weak subjectivity and forward-secure keys. Finally, we present a new fork choice rule that makes long range attacks significantly more expensive. The fork choice rule presented can be combined with either or both existing solutions, and can serve as an extra measure against the long range attacks.

This write-up is part of an ongoing effort to create high quality technical content about blockchain protocols and related topics. See our blog posts on Layer 2 approaches, Randomness, and our sharding paper that includes a great overview of the current state of the art.

Follow us on Twitter or join our discord channel to make sure you don’t miss the updates.

Long Range Attacks
Proof-of-Work with the heaviest chain fork choice rule has a very desirable property that no matter what malicious actors do, unless they control more than 50% of the hash power, they cannot revert a block that was finalized sufficiently long ago.

Proof-of-Stake systems do not have the same property. In particular, after the block producers that created blocks at some point in the past get their staked tokens back, the keys that they used to create blocks no longer have value for them. Thus, an adversary can attempt to buy such keys for a price significantly lower than the amount of tokens that was staked when the key was used to produce blocks. Since, unlike in Proof-of-Work, Proof-of-Stake has no mechanism to force a delay between produced blocks, the adversary can then in minutes create a chain that is longer than the canonical chain, and have such chain chosen by the fork choice rule.

There are two primary ways to get around this problem:

Weak subjectivity. Require that all the nodes in the network periodically check what is the latest produced block, and disallow reorgs that go too far into the past. If the nodes check the chain more frequently than the time it takes to unstake tokens, they will never choose a longer chain produced by an adversary who acquired keys for which the tokens were unstaked.

The weak side of the weak subjectivity approach is that while the existing nodes won’t be fooled by the attacker, all the new nodes that spin up for the first time will have no information to tell which chain was created first, and will choose the longer chain produced by the attacker. To avoid it, they need to somehow learn off-chain about the canonical chain, effectively forcing them to identify someone whom they trust in the network.

Forward-secure keys. Another approach is to make the block producers destroy the keys that they used to produce blocks immediately or shortly after the blocks were produced. This can be done by either creating a new key pair every time the participant creates blocks, or by using a construction called Forward-secure keys, which allows a secret key to change while the corresponding public key remains constant.

This approach relies on nodes being honest and following protocol strictly. There’s no incentive for them to destroy their keys, since they know in the future someone might attempt to buy them, thus the key has some non-zero value. While it is unlikely that a large percentage of block producers at a certain moment all decide to alter their binaries and remove the logic that wipes the keys, a protocol that relies on the majority of participants being honest has different security guarantees than a protocol that relies on the majority of participants being reasonable. Proof-of-work works for as long as more than half of the participants are reasonable and do not cooperate, and it is desirable to have the fork choice rule and a Sybil resistance mechanism that have the same property.

Proposed Fork-Choice Rule
Consider the figure below. There’s a block B sufficiently far in the past on the canonical chain such that the majority (or all) the block producers who were building the chain back when B was produced have their stake unstaked.

The adversary reaches out to all those block producers and acquires the private keys of ~⅔ of them. At that point the keys have no value to the block producers, so the adversary can purchase them for a price significantly lower than the actual amount that was staked.

The adversary then uses the keys to build a longer chain. Since no scarce resource is used in a Proof-of-Stake system, the adversary can do it very quickly.

We want a fork choice rule such that no matter how long the chain the adversary has built is, and how many of the corrupted validators signed on it, no client, including the clients that start for the first time, will see the chain built by the adversary as the canonical.

The proposed fork choice rule is the following: start from the genesis, and at each block greedily choose one of its children as the next block by doing the following:

Snapshot the state as of after the current block is applied.
Enumerate all the accounts that have tokens at that moment, as a list of pairs (public key, amount).
For each child block, identify all the public keys from the set that signed at least one transaction in the subtree of that child block.
Choose the child block for which the score, computed as the sum of the amounts on the accounts that signed at least one transaction in its subtree, is the largest.
In the example above if the current block we consider is B, its child blocks are C1 and C2. The subtree of C1 is all the blocks ever built on the canonical chain, while the subtree of C2 is all the blocks built by the adversary.

The score of the canonical chain will be the sum of all the amounts on the accounts in the snapshot that issued at least one transaction throughout the history of the canonical chain starting from B, including all the money transfers and staking transactions.

The score of the adversarial chain will be the sum of all the amounts on the accounts that made a transaction on the adversarial chain. With a proper replay protection it means that all such transactions will have to be issued by the adversary.

Say the total amount on all the accounts that exist in the snapshot that made at least one transaction on the canonical chain since B is p. Say the adversary managed to purchase the keys for a subset of such accounts such that the total amount on them adds up to q, q < p. Since for the adversary to have a heavier chain they need the total amount of accounts that issued transactions to be more than p, they need to also get a hold of some keys that correspond to accounts with more than p – q tokens for which no transaction was issued on the canonical chain. But since for those accounts no transaction was issued on the canonical chain, the keys for those accounts cannot be acquired for less than the value that was on such accounts in the snapshot, since those accounts still have all the funds that were in the snapshot as of the latest block on the canonical chain.

Thus, if the adversary can realistically acquire the keys as of block B that correspond to 80% of all the accounts that issued at least one transaction on the canonical chain at a discount, they still need to pay the amount of money that is at least 0.2p.

Note that this fork choice rule only works for long range fork decisions, since for the canonical chain to be resilient to forks, it needs to accumulate a large number of accounts issuing transactions. One way to combine it with more classic fork choice rules would be to first build a subset of the blockchain that only consists of blocks finalized by a BFT finality gadget, run the fork choice rule described above on such a sub-blockchain, and then starting from the last finalized block on the chain chosen by the fork choice rule use a more appropriate fork choice rule, such as LMD GHOST.

Outro
The fork choice rule described above provides an extra level of protection against long range attacks.

This particular fork choice rule, while has interesting properties, needs to be researched further before becoming usable in practice. For instance, it is unclear without further analysis if it provides economic finality.

We are actively researching the approaches to defend against long range attacks presently, and will likely be publishing more materials soon, so stay tuned.

In our continuous effort to create high quality technical content, we run a video series in which we talk to the founders and core developers of other protocols, we have episodes with Ethereum Serenity, Cosmos, Polkadot, Ontology, QuarkChain and many others. All the episodes are conveniently assembled into a playlist here.

If you are interested to learn more about technology behind NEAR Protocol, make sure to check out our sharding paper and our randomness beacon. NEAR is one of the very few protocols that addresses the state validity and data availability problems in sharding, and the sharding paper contains great overview of sharding in general and its challenges besides presenting our approach.

While scalability is a big concern for blockchains today, a bigger concern is usability. We invest a lot of effort into building the most usable blockchain. We published an overview of the challenges that the blockchain protocols face today with usability, and how they can be addressed here.

Follow us on Twitter and join our Discord chat where we discuss all the topics related to tech, economics, governance and other aspects of building a protocol.


Community Update: April 24th, 2020
COMMUNITY
April 24, 2020
The past two weeks have been quite eventful. We have been busy preparing for Ready Layer One while hosting community events and sharing our engineering updates with the community. To stay up to date with our community events, check out the events calendar.

Open Blockchain Week: Ready Layer One
It has been amazing to see various speakers and projects, from across the ecosystem, come together to work on one shared experience.

Confirmed talks include:

Laura Shin hosting a live podcast with L1 Founders: Zaki Manian (Cosmos), Illia Polosukhin (NEAR), Dr. Gavin Wood (Polkadot), Arthur Breitman (Tezos)
Mike Masnick, author of Protocols, not Platforms: A Technological Approach to Free Speech will discuss a decentralized approach to content moderation
Chris Dixon from a16z Crypto in a fireside chat with Robert Hackett of Fortune Magazine
We still have some tickets available for the NEAR community. The event will take place from the 4th to the 6th of May. Please let us know if you would like to attend and we can send you a ticket. 

Featured Speakers RL1 — Head over to the website to see the full list
The Road to MainNet and Beyond
This blog post details the roadmap to a community governed MainNet, divided into stages. The goal for the first stage is to distribute initial tokens to contributors and get the initial set of validators onboard. Developers who are ready to deploy their applications to MainNet will be able to apply to the NEAR Foundation and get an account to deploy their application.

Each stage is identified by the restrictions that it has and each stage has different goals. To learn more about our path to MainNet and the road ahead, please head over to our article. 

Uniting the Creators of Tomorrow: The Open Web Collective 
This is for the go-getters, the risk-takers, the crypto entrepreneurs moving past the hype of decentralization and building the projects that will bring the vision of the Open Web to reality.

OWC helps projects at all stages, from ideation to growth through access to exclusive curriculum, events, networks, and mentors. 

Collaborate, discuss new products and partnerships, build your team, get feedback, or even find a co-founder with OWC. 

Ready to accelerate your project and grow your network? Apply now and join the Collective at https://openwebcollective.com/

 

Thursday Jam — Join us in the next one!
Content
Introduction to NEAR Protocol’s Economics

This article explores the economic principles governing NEAR Protocol, and how they keep aligned the interests of its community.

Private Transactions

We take a deep dive into the internals of how private transactions will be implemented on NEAR so that no information about the participants or amounts are revealed—all without sacrificing the ability to validate the correctness.

NEAR Hacker’s Diaries

For those of you who are interested in the technical challenges in NEAR Protocol, we wrote an article explaining the gas metering estimation.

Call for Validators
If you want to join phase one on the road to a community governed MainNet and provide validation services to our community of users and contributors, please apply through the link below. We will contact every applicant, one by one, with further instructions to test your infrastructure on NEAR’s BetaNet and plan accordingly together: https://forms.gle/rQ6YTfvGVkMJLuS97

How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
Arbitrum Integrates NEAR DA for Developers Building Ethereum Rollups
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 21, 2023
The NEAR Data Availability layer (NEAR DA) was one of the most exciting announcements to come out of NEARCON ‘23. Unveiled by NEAR Protocol co-founder and new NEAR Foundation CEO, Illia Polosukhin, NEAR DA is a highly efficient and robust data availability layer, designed to help Ethereum rollup builders simplify their network and lower costs, while ensuring they can scale like the NEAR Protocol.

The latest technical integration for NEAR DA’s efficient and highly scalable data availability is now available for Arbitrum Orbit, the tech stack that allows developers to launch their own configurable rollups based on Arbitrum’s technology.

Arbitrum Orbit is a L2/L3 scaling solution for Ethereum that lets developers build their own dedicated chains with their own configurations. Arbitrum Orbit chains derive trustless security, while scaling Ethereum. With the latest NEAR DA integration, rollup builders could benefit from cheaper data availability costs to significantly reduce their overall rollup overheads. 

Develop Ethereum rollups within the Arbitrum Orbit ecosystem enabled by NEAR DA
The NEAR-Arbitrum integration allows devs  building their own rollups to be part of Arbitrum Orbit, an ecosystem of blockchains that settle onto Arbitrum or Ethereum Mainnet, while leveraging the cost effectiveness and scalability of the NEAR Protocol. 

Arbitrum is a clear innovative leader in developing the Optimistic Rollup technology, while also operating as an L2 with the highest TVL. Arbitrum now offers its own stack to other rollups builders with Arbitrum Orbit, one step closer to decentralizing Ethereum.  

Arbitrum Orbit chains leverage the Arbitrum Nitro tech stack, the technology that Arbitrum developed to scale Ethereum. It allows builders to create their own blockchains, which settles transactions on Arbitrum One, Arbitrum Nova, or Ethereum Mainnet if the Arbitrum DAO grants an L2 license. 

These Orbit chains, which use Arbitrum’s Rollup and AnyTrust protocols, offer customization across throughput, privacy, gas token, and governance to cater to specific use cases and business requirements. For instance, rollup builders looking for cheaper DA alternatives can now utilize NEAR DA within the Arbitrum Orbit stack. With this, developers can build self-managed, configurable blockchains with enhanced control over its features and governance, while deriving the security guarantees of Ethereum.  

NEAR DA paves the way for modular blockchain development
This integration empowers rollup builders on Arbitrum Orbit to use NEAR DA as a complete out-of-the-box modular DA solution. 

As of December 2023, 231 kB of calldata on NEAR costs $0.0016, while the same calldata on Ethereum L1 costs users $140.54. 

NEAR DA helps developers reduce costs and enhance their rollup’s reliability, while maintaining the security guarantees provided by Ethereum. Another upside to NEAR DA is that high quality projects launching an app-chain or L2 will be able to get out of the box NEAR DA compatibility and support. 

“Offering a data availability layer to Ethereum rollups highlights the versatility of NEAR’s tech while also helping founders from across Web3 deliver great products that bring us closer to mainstream adoption of the Open Web,” said Polosukhin, when announcing NEAR DA at NEARCON ‘23. 

“NEAR’s L1 has been live with 100% uptime for more than three years, so it can offer true reliability to projects looking for secure DA while also being cost-effective,” Polosukhin added. “NEAR provides great solutions to developers no matter which stack they’re building on and now that includes the Ethereum modular blockchain landscape.”
Interested teams who want to work with NEAR DA are invited to fill out this form, with information about your project and how you would like to integrate with NEAR DA.


NEAR at Collision Highlights
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 30, 2023
Missed NEAR’s booth at Collision? We’ve got you covered with content from NEAR talks and panels. There were also a number of awesome announcements, including the big news out of Collision: Alibaba Cloud.

From the winners of the Women in Web3 Changemakers awards being announced to exciting ecosystem developments, here’s a run down on all things NEAR from Collision 2023!! 

ICYMI: Major Announcements @ Collision
NEAR kicked off Collision with a roar, with two major news items rolling hot off the presses yesterday. Here’s the scoop: 

NEAR Foundation and Alibaba Cloud Join Forces 
First off, the NEAR Foundation announced a major partnership with Alibaba Cloud, the digital technology and intelligence backbone of Alibaba Group. The two will collaborate to offer Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) as a service and multi-chain data indexing to NEAR developers, users, and the broader ecosystem. 

The goal is to make building decentralized applications on the BOS a breeze, and working with one of the world’s biggest tech infrastructure companies is a huge step in the right direction. Alibaba Cloud will also enhance plug-and-play capabilities for BOS builders everywhere, from China and APAC to Europe and the Americas.

Winners of the Women of Web3 Changemakers Awards
In other news, the ten winners of the Women in Web3 Changemakers initiative were just announced. These incredible women are leading the charge in the Web3 space, and NEAR Foundation is proud to recognize their outstanding contributions. 

Selected from over 200 nominations and voted for by the public, these were chosen based on their inclusive and innovative ideas, impact within the Web3 space, and their contributions to significant projects. Read the full announcement for NEAR’s Women in Web3 Changemakers winners. 

Highlights from NEAR at Collision 
Geekpay breaks barriers in crypto transactions on NEAR
GeekPay, a crypto payments platform for businesses and freelancers built on NEAR, surpassed $500,000 in total transactions during Collision. It also just hit 205 verified users, companies, and 120 transactions. GeekPay is transforming how companies handle digital currency payments to contractors, eliminating the need for lengthy wallet addresses and providing greater security for cross-border transactions.

“NEAR is a perfect ecosystem and technology for cross-border payments in digital currencies for remote workers and contractors,” said Veronica Korzh, CEO and co-founder of GeekPay.

GeekPay supports a range of digital currencies including NEAR and ETH, including functionality with tracking and analytics, secure payment processing, invoicing, and transaction categorization. GeekPay hurdling the $400,000 transaction mark shows that the future of crypto payments for work is being built on the BOS.

Tenamint launches Toronto Regional Community with a bang
Tenamint, a marketplace for fractionalized trading card collectibles built on the NEAR blockchain, christened the launch of the NEAR Toronto Regional Community during the NEAR Toronto Launch Party. The soiree was held on an iconic yacht, the Yankee Lady, during a sunset cruise for an epic post-event party to cap off Collision.

“We’re thrilled to announce the launch of the NEAR Toronto Regional Community, a vibrant community dedicated to fostering collaboration, innovation, and growth in the Toronto region’s blockchain ecosystem,” said Sal Chaudhry, Tenamint co-founder and Toronto local.

“At the NEAR Toronto Regional Community, we’re on a mission to foster collaboration, education, and entrepreneurial support within the blockchain community,” Sal added. “We aim to empower individuals and businesses in Toronto and beyond to explore, adopt, and thrive in the world of blockchain technology and beyond,”

NEAR after Collision: Onward to ETHCC
Collision 2023 is only beginning, but the BOS momentum won’t stop in Toronto. NEAR will also be at the Ethereum Community Conference (ETHCC) in Paris, from July 19th to 23rd.

From exciting cross-chain discussions to insightful panels, interactive workshops, and pitch events, ETHCC promises to be another remarkable platform for BOS building and the wider NEAR community.

So after immersing yourself in Collision 2023, remember to mark your calendars for NEAR’s presence at ETHCC as well. Here’s to continuing to make waves in Web3 and expanding into the Open Web – with you as the BOS!
May NEAR Be with You | October 18th, 2019
COMMUNITY
October 18, 2019
Stake, you must! We’ve kicked-off Stake Wars, the NEAR Protocol’s incentivized testnet program. Practice your powers and compete with other validators for points that will be translated into rewards. Test, Bend and Break to gain points and level up. May the block be with you!

Our team is travelling at warp speed towards mainnet. In the meantime, we stop at various events to meet everybody. The past weeks included panels and talks in Tokyo and at Devcon V in Osaka. Pictures attached. Furthermore, our fleet of Beta Program projects is getting stronger by the month. Make sure to reach out to us with your ideas and projects at [email protected].

Lastly, a big shout-out to our ambassadors, who have been supporting us on the ground, translating content and building local communities. If you want to contribute to content, educational posts, and community organisation apply today!

If this photo had a title, it would be “Our community made us do it!” — Sasha and Illia having a great time after the Validator Panel in Tokyo, photo credits to @awasunyin.
COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
Community

Illia, Sasha and Peter have been busy travelling across Asia, including lots of great conversations at Devcon V.
Following Devcon, we had a great time at our cross-App communication panel, featuring Justin from Ethereum, Christopher from Cosmos, and Alistair from Polkadot. A BIG thanks to James Prestwich for moderating.
Our Ambassador Program has reached over 70 members. 
Shout-out to our Ambassador Huy, who has been busy building the Vietnam Telegram Group. You can join here!
Can validators be the hidden evils in the blockchain world? Illia at the Validator Panel in Tokyo. Photo credits to @Diane_0320
Upcoming events

We are busy bees preparing for San Francisco Blockchain Week! If you happen to be in the Bay Area drop by our office or attend one of our events — Details to be announced soon!
Next week, we’ll do a little UK tour, catching up with Uni students from Oxford, Cambridge and London at The Future of Blockchain Hackathon. If you are at one of the events or in the area reach out and say hi!
#spotted @DevconV
WRITING AND CONTENT
Become a validator you must! Read the announcement & sign-up here! Chinese Edition of the announcement. (Shout-out to our ambassador Fengyuan, who translated it.)
Alex’ thread on Vitalik’s sharding announcement and how it compares to NEAR.
Tweet thread on NEAR’s mission to enable community-driven innovation and development to benefit people around the world *takes in deep breath*.
Chinese Translation of Alex’ blog post “Long Range Attacks, and a new Fork Choice Rule” by one of our ambassadors.
ENGINEERING UPDATE
90 PRs across 19 repos by 24 authors. Featured repos:nearcore,nearlib,near-shell,near-wallet,near-bindgen, docs, NEARStudio, assemblyscript, near-evm, borsh, stakewars and near-explorer;

Show transactions on Block Details page in near-explorer;
Switch Network for Stake Wars in near-explorer;
Massive rewrite of networking to support better peer discovery and message routing  in nearcore;
Fixing transaction propagation, large overhaul of nightshade preparing to implement challenges, proper logic to retry requesting shard chunks in nearcore;
Work on diving state into parts preparing for proper state sync in nearcore;
Add a check into Runtime to compare input and output balances in nearcore;
Native test runner to replace docker runner and clean up in nearcore;
Creating a new near compiler frontend in near-runtime-ts;
Updated dependencies in borsh;
Set initialBalance for create_account – 1 NEAR in near-shell;
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!

If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Running Ethereum Applications On NEAR
CASE STUDIES
February 15, 2020
The major part of this work was done by James Prestwich and Barbara Liau from https://summa.one/.

TLDR: Today we are releasing a set of tools to deploy EVM contracts on the NEAR network, thus benefiting from the performance, user experience and developer tooling of NEAR. Underneath, it’s implemented as an execution environment which runs Ethereum as a smart contract on NEAR. Web3.js tooling works with NEAR via a custom provider. 

EVM support and web3.js provider
Ethereum’s developer community is large, and many crypto developers are familiar with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). Solidity, an EVM-targeted language, has been developed since the beginning to serve as the primary language for smart contracts. While it has clear limitations when compared to general purpose languages like Rust and TypeScript, Solidity maintains broad adoption and extensive tooling for on-chain development.

NEAR, on the other hand, uses the WebAssembly Virtual Machine (WASM), an increasingly popular technology both in crypto and in the wider tech world. The majority of the crypto space is moving in this direction, with projects like ETH2, Polkadot, and more deciding to use WASM.

While we believe strongly in WebAssembly, we recognize the need to simplify this transition for developers, and are releasing a way for existing EVM contracts to run on NEAR. To do so, we’ve deployed the EVM as a smart contract. Conveniently, the Parity Ethereum client has an EVM implementation in Rust that is easily compilable to WebAssembly. 

Running the EVM as a smart contract is essentially a simplified version of the ETH2 / Serenity execution environment concept, and it doesn’t require any custom transaction processing logic! You can find the EVM contract on Github.

Since the majority of Ethereum tooling relies on web3.js, we’ve implemented a custom web3 provider, NearProvider, that allows direct communication to Ethereum contracts via familiar interfaces in near-web3-provider library. NearProvider handles the connection to the Near network, and automatically translates objects and RPC calls for you.

Let’s dig in!

How it works
First, let’s get your Solidity application running on NEAR’s TestNet:

If you don’t have an existing Truffle project, set it up first. You can find the example here – https://github.com/kcole16/near-evm-demo.

Next, install NEAR shell:

npm install -g near-shell

Then, login with NEAR wallet:

near login

This will redirect you to the NEAR web wallet, and walk you through creating a new account. You can enter any accountID you’d like to use going forward. Next, you will authorize the CLI to use this account via a transaction, and then enter the newly created accountID to complete the login.

The next step is to configure NEAR as another network in truffle.js:

The above code imports near-web3-provider, which provides a mapping from Ethereum RPCs to NEAR’s network.

Next, we’ll point it to the keyStore that contains your NEAR account, from which you will be deploying applications (and paying fees). Here, I use my account illia, but you should change this to your accountId.

And that’s it, you are ready to deploy applications to NEAR’s EVM!

truffle migrate –network near

You can checkout success of your transaction in the block explorer: https://explorer.nearprotocol.com

The final step is to plugin your near-web3-provider into your frontend web3 code. This way you can now use NEAR Wallet and enable people to onboard and use your application easily.

Once you have your provider set up, you can interact with near-evm using Truffle, Web3.js, and many other standard Solidity development tools. While the library is still in early stages, many web3-based apps will just work out of the box.

You can checkout full example here: https://github.com/kcole16/near-evm-demo

NEAR EVM support is ready for your project! Start developing today.

Resources
Here are the useful resources:

https://github.com/kcole16/near-evm-demo – repo with full demo.
https://github.com/nearprotocol/near-evm – EVM execution environment contract.
https://github.com/nearprotocol/near-web3-provider – NearProvider for Web3.js.
https://t.me/joinchat/F3YJ0lcCcZka_GN09MGwJw – Developer support channel on Telegram for real time questions.
https://commonwealth.im/near – forum for ideas and suggestions.
Statement in full: NEAR Foundation to fund USN Protection Programme
COMMUNITY
October 24, 2022
The NEAR ecosystem has always been at the cutting edge of innovation – many projects building on the NEAR blockchain are pushing boundaries – creating new value and experiences for users, and radically redefining how traditional markets and processes operate. The road of innovation is one of constant learning, evolution, and sometimes challenges that need the community to rally together in support of our shared goals and values to find a clear path forward. 

Decentral Bank and USN
USN, a NEAR-native stablecoin, was created and launched by Decentral Bank (DCB) on 25th April 2022 (v1). This is an independently operated community run project which had no direct financial assistance from the NEAR Foundation. 

In June 2022, DCB upgraded the algorithmic USN (v1) to a new non-algorithmic version (v2) due to the potential risks, including undercollateralisation, inherent in algorithmic stablecoins. DCB has confirmed that USN v2 is a non-algorithmic and fully 1:1 USDT-backed version. This can be seen and verified within the smart contract code from DCB.  

DCB recently contacted the NEAR Foundation to advise it that USN had become undercollateralised due to it originally being an algorithmic stablecoin (v1) susceptible to undercollateralisation during extreme market conditions. DCB has also confirmed that there was some double-minting of USN, associated with the v1 algorithm, which contributed to the undercollateralisation. 

The known collateral gap is $40m USD and cannot expand further assuming DCB burns/destroys all the double-minted USN and promptly winds down the project in an orderly manner. This gap is not related to the value of the $NEAR token (and USN has never had any burn/mint relationship to $NEAR).

On this basis, the NEAR Foundation believes the collateral gap to be contained.

The USN Protection Programme
Stablecoins in general have faced many headwinds over the last few months with increased regulatory focus, and changes in market perception from recent high profile incidents. Although this situation is fundamentally different to other incidents (as USN never had a hardcoded burn/mint relationship to $NEAR), the headwinds still remain. 

Given the issues described above, the NEAR Foundation is recommending that USN should wind down. The Foundation encourages DCB to do this at the earliest opportunity in a responsible and professional manner that protects all of its users.

The NEAR Foundation’s purpose is to support the NEAR ecosystem and its users. In order to safeguard users and to facilitate the orderly winding down of USN by DCB, the NEAR Foundation has elected to set aside $40m USD in fiat (equal to the known collateral gap as described above), to be made available via a grant for the creation of a USN Protection Programme. The NEAR Foundation has already provided this grant to a subsidiary of Aurora Labs, – one of the NEAR ecosystem’s most prominent contributors – to set up the USN Protection Programme which is now live on Aurora Labs’s website. 

As conditions of the grant, Aurora Labs have agreed that the USN Protection Programme will operate with the sole purpose of making users whole and will be subject to various conditions including KYC/AML, sanctions checks and certain geographic restrictions. In order to prevent abuse of the Programme, only legitimately minted USN in existence immediately prior to the time of this announcement will be eligible (a snapshot). The USN Protection Programme is live and redemptions will begin once the USN smart contract has stopped minting and the double-minted USN has been burnt. The DCB team and their affiliates will not be eligible to participate in the Programme. 

With the USN Protection Programme, NEAR Foundation understands that USN is now overcollateralised, as there is also approximately 5.7m $NEAR in the DCB treasury which the Foundation expects DCB to donate to the NEAR community.

Given that the undercollateralisation gap is contained, based on the information and assumptions set out above, the Foundation are confident that this action best safeguards users and the wider NEAR ecosystem.

A look ahead to the future
The NEAR Foundation is confident that as the ecosystem grows and matures, this type of intervention should not be required in the future. 

Moving forward, the NEAR Foundation will be working with the NDC and wider community to set up a funded initiative with the remit of developing robust community standards & guardrails, in particular in relation to stablecoins, to help ensure that users are protected in situations of rapid innovation, and evolving markets and regulations.

Note: Nothing in this statement is intended to be, and is not, an offer or sale of any tokens or securities. Certain persons, including US persons, as defined in Regulation S under the US Securities Act will not be eligible to participate in the USN Protection Programme.
NEAR Transparency Report: November 25
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 25, 2022
As part of the Foundation’s commitment to transparency, each week it will publish data to help the NEAR community understand the health of the ecosystem. This will be on top of the quarterly reports, and the now monthly funding reports. 

You can find the quarterly reports here.

You can find monthly reports on funding here.  

Last week’s transparency report can be found here. 

This week, the Foundation is focusing on the state of token supply in the ecosystem.

The importance of transparency
The NEAR Foundation has always held transparency as one of its core beliefs. Being open to the community, investors, builders and creators is one of the core tenets of being a Web3 project. But it’s become apparent the Foundation needs to do more. 

The Foundation hears the frustration from the community, and it wants to be more pro-active in when and how it communicates. 

Total Supply
At Genesis, the NEAR blockchain was created with one billion tokens. Since then, the number of supply has increased to 1.1 billion. This number steadily rises due to inflation. For reference, 90% of the 5% annual inflation is sent to Validators to be paid out as staking rewards, with the residual 10% returned to the NEAR Foundation Treasury.

The total number of live accounts has been increasing rapidly, up to a total of 22 million. At present, new accounts are created on NEAR at an average rate between 35,000 and 38,000 new accounts per day. This number is down from the week before, which average 37-39,000 accounts per day.

Circulating Supply Statistics
Below is a break down of the circulating supply. The blue section represents the total number of $NEAR, and the green section represents tokens not currently locked in lockup contracts.

The number of tokens in circulating supply has been steadily increasing at a faster rate than the total circulating supply. In the past week, 3 million more $NEAR has moved from locked contracts to circulating, taking the number of circulating tokens from 827 million, to 830 million. This is typically due to further unlocks within both the NEAR Foundation Treasury and contractual vesting schedules.

Active Accounts
The most active accounts on NEAR are displayed here as the most active in the past 14 days. The most active account is relay.aurora, which is the main conduit by which Aurora moves transactions between Ethereum and NEAR. In the past two weeks, it recorded more than 900,000 transactions.

The second most active account was oracle.sweat, which is allows SWEAT users to communicate with the NEAR blockchain. The oracle.sweat account made just under 800,000 transactions in the last two weeks. The remaining accounts, collectively recorded more than a million transactions in the time period.

Daily Number of Transactions
The daily number of transactions is a record of how many times the blockchain logged a transaction. The earliest data available is from the second week of November. The data shows that daily transactions have been trending upwards and sit just under one million transactions per day. This is significant growth from the previous average of 400,000 per day.

These reports will be generated each week and published on Friday.
NEAR Lunch & Learn Ep. 03: Light clients in Proof-of-Stake systems
COMMUNITY
November 14, 2019
In this video we discuss the challenges of implementing light clients in Proof-of-Stake systems that either do not use BFT consensus at all, or use some sort of BFT finality gadget, but allow a large sequence of blocks to be created without any of them being finalized.

We start by covering light clients in Proof of Work systems. In a Proof of Work system for as long as the client can verify proofs of work in the headers, it is extremely complex for an adversary to convince a light client that a particular chain is canonical without executing an Eclipse attack, or carrying out a several hours long 51% attack.

We then cover light clients in BFT systems, in which each block is finalized. In such a system the light client can just confirm that each block has the signature of a super majority of validators, and confirm locally that the validator set transitions were executed properly. Unless the adversary at some point controlled a super majority of validators, or executed a long-range attack, they cannot trick a light client into believing that an adversarial chain is canonical.

Finally, we cover a major challenge of designing a light client in a proof of stake system that doesn’t use BFT finality, or allows epochs without finalized blocks. We argue that to support the clients a Proof-of-Stake system either needs to require each epoch to have at least one block finalized, or to use some scarce resource (such as work or space) in addition to Proof-of-Stake.


Happy Hacking | November 15th, 2019
COMMUNITY
November 15, 2019
We have just opened the registration for the next week of Stake Wars. If you are interested in participating, please join us on Discord; you will find more information in the validator channel. So far we have received lots of feedback that allowed us to improve the testnet, fix bugs, and make the program more accessible for everyone. If you are thinking of joining, please have a try, the Near team is here to support.

The third episode of our “Lunch & Learn” series is out, in which Alex discusses the challenges of implementing light clients in Proof-of-Stake systems. In “Lunch & Learn” Illia and Alex share the design, assumptions, and implementation of NEAR Protocol. 

Lastly, we are increasing our efforts to gather community and developer feedback. If you are in the Bay Area, please pass by our office for one of our “Blockchain Hack Nights”. The first one will happen next week – Sign-up here! 

For everyone who cannot make it in person, we would still love to hear from you. Please fill out the following form. Someone from the team will get in touch.

“Lunch & Learn” third episode
COMMUNITY UPDATE
Our goal is to build a self-sufficient community. To get there, we are in the process of changing the structure of the ambassador program to give local hubs more autonomy and to operate independently from Near. 
The Future of Blockchain Hackathon has started! We currently have 30 teams signed-up to build on NEAR. Some teams are looking for additional team members; if you are interested, have a look at the overview and join the fob-hackathon channel in our Discord.
UPCOMING EVENTS
We are launching “Blockchain Hack Night”; a bi-weekly meetup for developers and blockchain enthusiasts in the Bay Area. Besides talks on dApp and blockchain development, we will help you get started building your own dApp on NEAR. The first one will happen next week – Sign-up now!

Join us here!
WRITING AND CONTENT
Have a look at Gavin’s article, summarising the AMA between Staking Hub and Illia. Take me to the article.
To learn more about our approach to sharding, have a look at Alex’ talk at the second annual Scalar Capital summit.
We have more ambassadors from Europe getting involved. A big shout-out to Markus, who has started a German Medium site; articles include a German translation of “The Beginner’s Guide to the NEAR Blockchain”.
“Early morning in @NEARProtocol HQ” – Tweet 
ENGINEERING UPDATES
156 PRs across 23 repos by 27 authors. Featured repos:nearcore,nearlib,near-shell,near-wallet,near-bindgen, assemblyscript-json, nomicon, near-ops, near-contract-helper, borsh, stakewars and near-explorer;

Release v0.4.5 of nearcore
Merklization of execution outcomes in nearcore
Reduce wait for validators who are offline, remove mem leak in nearcore
Finalizing the Finality Gadget in NEARCore — the finality gadget described in https://near.ai/post is now fully implemented, integrated and tested. Under normal circumstances whenever a block at height `k` is published, the block at height `k-2` is irreversible.
The final PR in implementing proper state sync in nearcore.
near-shell 0.14.1 published 
Updated transactions ordering doc, add an example in nomicon
Fixed server-side rendering of node pages in near-explorer
A three-part PR (1, 2 and 3) improving transaction pool and implementing delaying receipts to prevent spamming shards in nearcore
Major overhaul of networking code in nearcore
Implement runtime fee per touched trie node in nearcore
NEP outlining the details of the Proposed implementation of the randomness beacon
Node & Staking and visual changes in near-wallet
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!

If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Welcome to Day 0 – It’s Just the Beginning
COMMUNITY
October 14, 2020
Welcome to Day 0! It’s been an exciting few days of announcements and even more exciting past 24 hours with Millions of $NEAR being transferred and over 160 Million NEAR Staked.

Echoing our mission to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world, we’re all hands on deck to answer the community’s burning questions about what comes next for NEAR and clarify any questions that have surfaced since transfers were enabled yesterday.

In case you missed it, here’s a recording link of our open community town hall from this morning with members of the NEAR core team live answering community questions.

Here’s a quick roundup of the excitement:
NEAR is Live with Transfers

NEAR is now fully permissionless, decentralized & community-governed. This means it’s now possible for anyone to create accounts, transfer and trade NEAR tokens, and build and launch applications on a performant blockchain that prioritizes ease of use for developers and end users.

Staking & Transfers are Live in the NEAR Wallet!

Earlier this week we released an exciting update to the NEAR Wallet; it now has a staking user interface built directly into the web app. Join the wallet team on Discord in the wallet channel if you have any questions or feedback.

New Foundation Delegation Rewards

With the announcement that Stake Wars was ending, the NEAR Foundation announced three new ways for the community to stay involved with Validators and earn rewards from the NEAR Foundation to promote ecosystem growth.

New Governance Forum 

With the official launch of the decentralized community, we created a new open governance forum on our website. Join community conversations on the protocol, the future of decentralization, governance structures on NEAR, and more! Erik kicked us off with a thread about clarifying day 1 supply in circulation and to review Phase II governance in the first governance work group session.

$NEAR is listed on Exchanges

With transfers enabled on chain, open trading and deposits were announced by Binance and Huobi making it possible for new Token holders to join the community.

Applications Live on the NEAR:
We’ve been working closely with the developer community to onboard great applications to NEAR across a variety of use cases like marketplaces, gaming, and NFTs. There are a lot more amazing partners we’ll be announcing in the NEAR future, so stay tuned! For now, here are three exciting applications we’re welcoming to the NEAR Community:

Zed Run – Gaming – a futuristic horse racing universe where users can trade, breed, and race majestic, digital racehorses.

Flux – Open Markets – an open market protocol that enables developers to create markets on anything.

Mintbase – Minting NFTs – Shopify for NFTs, making it easy for anyone to create NFTs.

Updates are coming! Here’s what’s next:
The community came out in full force today to start staking, trading, and using NEAR applications from the moment we went live. This was a huge feat, and something we couldn’t be more excited and thankful for. 

As with all product launches, it’s only the beginning. We wanted to take a moment to address some of the common issues we’re hearing from the community and speak to immediate updates planned for the NEAR Wallet on our roadmap that will make using NEAR even easier than before.

Staking in the NEAR Wallet is for Locked Tokens only…for now. Very soon, you’ll be able to stake all tokens, whether locked or unlocked. We built the interface for Locked Tokens first because that represents the vast majority of token holders in the community. This means if your tokens aren’t locked, you can’t use the NEAR Wallet for staking just yet, including viewing any stake positions you have created through Dokia or the command line.
In designing a secure and stable first version of the Wallet, we chose top SMS and Email providers for 2FA. In our coming release, we’ll be optimizing how we deliver through those providers to ensure that any failures to send or lag in delivery won’t affect the end user experience and you’ll receive clear error messages. Currently, there may be a slight delay at times based on your geolocation in receiving an SMS or Email for your 2FA. Tightening partner integrations is a high priority for the team.
We’re working on a bunch of enhancements to how we handle error messages to keep you informed of what’s happening. Keep in mind if you see a scary (or vague) error message, your keys are safe and your Tokens are not lost.
This is especially true for any Recovery issues at the moment. For example, if you see the message “Error: Exceeded maximum attempts for this transaction,” this could be caused by a number of networking issues or simply a slight delay from the RPC nodes. Don’t worry, your keys aren’t lost, try again in a few minutes and it should work.

Staking and Unstaking was the focus of our release Monday and we’re excited to see it being widely used across the community with more than 160 Million NEAR Staked to the network. This participation is what enabled the Validators to pass the vote and move us into Phase 2.
Now that transfers are live and applications are running on NEAR, we are working on improvements to the Unstaking process to allow you to Unstake a partial balance that you may want to trade, transfer, or use in some other way.

Finally, one of the greatest things about NEAR that developers and users will love is the flexible contract-based account model that support many keys per account. This allows you to create very customizable experiences with advanced permissions improving usability for users.
Accounts can be either user-defined (human readable, less than 64 characters) or implicit (derived from a private key, always exactly 64 characters). When creating an account through the NEAR Wallet, your account name will usually be user-defined, and will end in .near. If you use Trust Wallet, or an exchange, they will likely provide you an implicit account to use (Trust Wallet) or deposit to (an exchange). Adding ‘.near’ to the end of an implicit account will result in an error because you will have too many characters in your account name. We’re working on ways to better handle and manage your accounts both ‘.near’ and implicit accounts to make using your accounts on NEAR even easier.

The Wallet team’s roadmap continues to grow and there will be more to come soon. If you have any immediate questions or concerns, join the community discussion on Discord and reach out to the wallet team in their channel.

Join the Community
Once again, thank YOU for being the best part of the NEAR ecosystem and coming with us on this ride. The last few days have been incredibly exciting, but what’s even more exciting is that this is only just the beginning. We’ve got a ton of great partners joining with applications set to launch on NEAR very soon.

If you’re just learning about NEAR for the first time and are seeing this post, we invite you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people who are excited for the future of the Open Web with NEAR. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.
NEARCON ‘23 Day Two Begins: Expand Your Open Web Horizons
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 9, 2023
The second day of NEARCON 23 is kicking off with an awesome agenda, carrying over the massive momentum from Day One. Doors fling wide open at 9:00 AM for all attendees, so make sure to grab a coffee and a quick breakfast bite before the sessions really get ramped up at 10:45 AM all the way through 5:30 PM. 

You won’t want to miss a moment of Day Two, so read on for a complete rundown.

Join the morning brunch at Community HQ
This year, we’re paying tribute to the dynamic women shaping the Web3 ecosystem, and leading a discussion on how to nurture the next generation of top talent. Join us for the Women in Web3 Changemakers breakfast at Community HQ at 8:30 AM. It’s a must attend event for anyone wishing to learn about the challenges and career opportunities available to women — and how to make the World of Web3 brighter for all. 

Can’t miss sessions on Day Two
Day Two at NEARCON ‘23 will dive into the intersection of the open web and traditional industries and explore new developments in digital identity, including a must see fireside chat with NEAR CEO Illia Polosukhin and TechCrunch.

SK Telecom’s Leap Into Web3 (11:25 AM – 11:40 AM, Layer 1 Stage): Sehyeon Oh, EVP at SK Telecom, unveils the telecom giant’s Web3 strategy, including an open web wallet and NFT marketplace initiative. Learn about how a traditional industry is collaborating with NEAR to expand the reach of the open web..

AI x Blockchain: Illia Polosukhin and Mike Butcher in Conversation (3:50 PM – 4:15 PM, Layer 1 Stage): Join Illia Polosukhin, NEAR co-founder, and Mike Butcher of TechCrunch as they dissect the interplay between AI and Web3, and what the future holds for their convergence.

From Nightshade to Starsight: The Evolution of NEAR Protocol Design (2:40 PM – 3:00 PM, Layer 2 Stage): Pagoda’s Bowen Wang provides insights into NEAR Protocol’s recent advancements and teases upcoming developments regarding protocol design and the next evolution of sharding.

Introducing Decentralized Identity Solutions With the idOS (1:45 PM – 2:15 PM, Block Zero Stage): Julian Leitloff explains how the Identity Operating System (idOS) is transforming digital identity, offering users sovereign control over their personal data with their pioneering open-source DID solution.

More Speaker Highlights
Hiring Wisdom for Web3 (11:00 AM – 11:15 AM, Layer 2 Stage): Dan Eskow, open web recruiter at Up Top, shares invaluable hiring tactics tailored for the dynamic Web3 sector, where finding the right fit is as challenging as it is critical.

Economic Design in Protocols (11:45 AM – 12:00 PM, Layer 2 Stage): Lisa JY Tan from Economics Design guides us through the intricacies of creating economically sound and sustainable protocols, offering vital insights for VCs and entrepreneurs.

Bug Bounties and Web3 Security (3:30 PM – 3:45 PM, Layer 2 Stage): Mitchell Amador, founder and CEO of Immunefi, narrates the journey to establishing the most substantial bug bounties in the open web.

Strategizing DAO Resource Allocation (4:25 PM – 4:40 PM, Layer 2 Stage): Andre Geest of Safe discusses optimizing resource distribution within DAOs, presenting a balanced approach to boost both governance and community engagement.

Founders Forum and IRL Hackathon
For entrepreneurs forging the next wave of open innovation, the Founders Forum at Community HQ is the place to be. Dive into sessions from 11:30 AM to 5:00 PM that dissect critical legal and regulatory aspects for startups, explore the equilibrium between decentralization and compliance, and uncover strategies for assembling a stellar team in the Web3 domain.

Also, a reminder for all Hackathon participants. Finalize your projects by the 5:00 PM deadline and prepare to showcase your open web ingenuity.

Sunset socializing and networking
After the jam-packed sessions all morning and afternoon, get ready to wind down and relax before calling it a day — or getting revved up for a late Lisbon night.

Movers and Shakers Happy Hour (5pm – 7pm, Community HQ): Mingle with your newest NEARCON friends and connections at an epic happy hour sponsored by Glass and Moonbounce.
SailGP Happy Hour (5:45 pm – 7pm, NEARCON HQ): Swap stories and fresh insights right outside the Layer 2 Stage as the final session ends. Who knows, you might even score a collab or two while you’re at it.
Shout out to the Day Two sponsors
A heartfelt thank you to today’s sponsors, without whose all-out support such an event would not have been possible.

Glass
Moonbounce
SailGP
Get ready for a day brimming with Web3 wisdom, open web masterminds, and the chance to engage with the brightest and bravest of the NEAR ecosystem. It’s a unique concoction of insight, education, and fun that only NEARCON ‘23 can cook up. So seize the day, connect at the happy hours, and let’s make Day Two a milestone for the entire open web.


NEAR and Alibaba Cloud Team Up to Grow the Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 26, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a major new partnership with Alibaba Cloud, the digital technology and intelligence backbone of Alibaba Group. 

In this new partnership, NEAR Foundation will collaborate with Alibaba Cloud to offer Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) as a service to developers and users in the NEAR ecosystem, as well as multi-chain data indexing to provide data query API to developers. The partnership will also find the companies collaborating on tools to help developers build decentralized applications more easily. 

“Our partnership with Alibaba Cloud is a major milestone for the NEAR Foundation as it proves that NEAR protocol’s technology has the capabilities to truly lift the restrictions surrounding Web3 development to allow more creators to build exciting applications while also helping to onboard billions of Web2 users to the possibility of Web3.,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “We look forward to supporting Alibaba Cloud as it leverages the scalability of NEAR Blockchain and the BOS to expand its Web3 offerings to a global market.”

Alibaba Cloud infrastructure to help power the BOS
App developers building on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (BOS) — a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences, compatible with any blockchain — will now also enjoy Alibaba Cloud’s infrastructure. 

With BOS, now accessible directly on Near.org through a browser, developers can easily fork components and create new experiences, while end users can explore open web experiences, social, and news all in one place. FastAuth, a new standout BOS feature, allows app developers to onboard new users with only an email — no crypto required. 

Alibaba Cloud’s plug-and-play infrastructure will empower NEAR developers
Commenting on the partnership, Raymond Xiao, Head of International Web3 Solutions, Alibaba Cloud Intelligence, said: “The NEAR Foundation and Alibaba Cloud partnership is an important one as we continue to support Web3 developers to explore opportunities.”

“It is also significant for developers and validators in the Asian markets, as they can leverage Alibaba Cloud’s comprehensive infrastructure in Asia,” Xioa added. “Together with NEAR’s Node-as-a-Service initiative and BOS, we supports the Web3 community create exciting applications that will benefit a wide consumer audience. We are looking forward to what we can achieve with this partnership.”

NEAR Foundation and Alibaba Cloud will continue to expand its partnership together through collaborations at a variety of global Web3 conferences and events.
Binance Custody Adds $NEAR Token and NEP-141 Standard to its Infrastructure
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 7, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to share its newest integration with Binance Custody, an institutional-grade digital asset custody solution. By supporting the NEP-141 standard, Binance Custody enables any institutional user with $NEAR holdings to make use of their highly secure storage infrastructure. The integration also makes it easier for Binance Custody to provide future support for any NEP-141 compatible tokens from projects building on NEAR. 

For those not yet in the know, NEP-141 is simply a set of rules that determine how tokens on NEAR can operate. It’s an upgrade from the earlier NEP-21 standard by being simpler for users and developers as well as being cheaper and more efficient. 

Click here to learn more about NEAR’s NEP-141 standard

Storing NEAR and NEP-141 compatible tokens on Binance Custody
What does it mean to be able to store NEAR and NEP-141 compatible tokens on Binance Custody? It means institutional users benefit from an integrated ecosystem built to help them manage their assets with world-class security standards backed by multi-party computation technology. Binance Custody is an independent, compliant, and audited custodial solution that currently supports over 230 digital assets.

Click here to learn the difference between custodial and non-custodial wallets 

“We’re very excited to be part of NEAR’s journey as their institutional custody partner,” said Athena Yu, VP of Binance Custody. “With this integration, $NEAR token holders benefit from our secure, integrated security and liquidity solutions. We welcome any project building on the NEAR protocol to reach out to us to learn how our institutional infrastructure can help them scale with peace of mind.”

Security on Binance Custody
Platform security is paramount, and Binance Custody makes it easy for institutional users to safely store their digital assets. With this integration, Binance Custody allows investors to not only store their $NEAR tokens securely, but also benefit from liquidity opportunities thanks to the custodian’s integration with the vast Binance ecosystem, which includes the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume.

“A core mission for NEAR is building an ecosystem of diverse communities,” says NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament. “With this partnership, NEAR can welcome to the NEAR ecosystem the many financial institutions that have turned to Binance Custody as their trusted provider for digital assets custody and settlement solutions.”

Binance Custody offers a growing suite of solutions currently including:

Qualified Wallet: institutional-grade cold vaultstorage
Prime Wallet: warm wallet infrastructure offering instantaneous transactions between Binance Custody and the Binance exchange, with sub-accounts.
Binance Mirror: matches an institution’s cold storage custody funds with 1:1 availability on their Binance exchange account to access deep liquidity venues.
Cold Convert: trade tokens from cold storage with zero counterparty risk and customized slippage tolerance without compromising on security.
Legal Disclaimer: The information contained in this press release is not directed at nor intended for use by any users, investors or prospective investors, and may not under any circumstances be relied upon when making a decision to invest in any NEAR tokens. Information in this release is not financial/investment advice, please seek independent financial advice. 


NEARCON 2022: A Global Experience for Builders and Creators
COMMUNITY
August 9, 2022
Big updates this month! NEAR Foundation is super stoked to be bringing you new information about NEARCON, which is just over a month away. Early bird tickets are sold out, but general admission tickets are still available for $460—a great deal if you consider all the amazing stuff we have planned. And psst! If you want to save a little cash, Pagoda and Aurora have discount codes for 35% off. Check their Twitter feeds to find them! 

If you’re a hacker joining the community for the IRL hackathon you get a complimentary conference pass! You can still apply here. The Hackathon will feature an impressive docket of judges you can flex your skills for including: Maria Shen (Electric Capital), Brendan Eich (Brave), Sampson (Brave), Carolin Wend (Mintbase), Alex Shevchenko (Aurora Labs), Sasha Hudzilin (Human Guild), Taras Dovgal (Kikimora Labs), Vasilisa Versus (Roketo), Lindsey McInerney (Armored Kingdom), and our very own Illia Polosukhin (NEAR) and Marieke Flament (NEAR Foundation). 

Mark it down, hackers!

Building Beyond the Hype
The main theme at this year’s NEARCON is Building Beyond the Hype. NEAR Foundation and the wider community aim to make clear that NEAR and Web3 are here for the long haul, no matter what the market looks like. 

The NEAR community recently hit a major milestone of launching over 700+ ecosystem projects spanning all web3 verticals and layers. NEARCON will be an interactive demonstration of the talent, creativity, intelligence, and practical use cases of the mighty (and growing!) ecosystem. 

The NEARCON gathering is a great chance to see many of the cutting edge projects building on NEAR. And if you’re developing your own project on NEAR, or thinking about building one, it’s also a fantastic time to get feedback from our creative and supportive community. 

Confirmed NEARCON Speakers
NEARCON is known for its eclectic and original approach to diverse content. You’re going to love hearing from and engaging with such great minds as: Maria Shen (Electric Capital), Brendan Eich (Brave), Baek Kim (Hashed Ventures), Lou Kerner (CryptoMondays), Stanley Chen (Sci-Fi Author) James Tromans (Google Cloud), Oleg Fomenko (Sweat), Vivi Lin (Octopus), Magali McIntyre (Egon Zehnder), and Haseeb Qureshi (Dragonfly Capital). 

This is only a snapshot of our speakers and a sample of what’s to come at NEARCON. So, check out the NEARCON website to find out more! There will also be a variety of announcements, keynotes, firesides, panels, workshops, demos, and more throughout the four-day conference.

A creative global experience
As NEAR is a vibrant, global ecosystem, NEARCON is going to be quite the international affair. You’ll hear from representatives from NEAR Regional Hubs based in Asia-Pacific, the Balkans, Kenya, and Ukraine (temporarily based in Lisbon). There will also be food trucks featured from these represented regions. Attendees will be able to experience and familiarize themselves with this immersive, multicultural experience.

NEAR Foundation would be remiss not to mention all the creativity that will be taking place at NEARCON. There will be activations from a slew of fantastic organizations including: Pagoda, Aurora, SailGP, Human Guild (Play-to-Earn, Gamers’ Lounge!), CoinDesk, NEARWEEK, Regional Hubs, and a variety of exciting artists building on NEAR. 

Big Time Partners 
We are thrilled to announce that CoinDesk is the Official Media Partner for NEARCON. Expect to see CoinDeskTV Studios at the event covering the exciting events we’ll be hosting. You can find the full list of sponsors on the NEARCON website. 

That’s all for now, but make sure you don’t miss any other updates by signing up for our email list or by checking out the NEARCON website regularly. 
Check Out the Pagoda Product Roadmap
DEVELOPERS
October 19, 2023
Over the past year, Pagoda has been working hard to build out the B.O.S, evolve near.org, and continue developing the NEAR protocol. While Pagoda has built and launched proprietary services in the past, almost all of our work so far in 2023 and planned for the future is free open-source software,  which we intend to become vital parts of the NEAR ecosystem. We want the community to be aware of, excited by, and engaged in this work. 

So I’m excited to announce that Pagoda is making its product roadmap public this week via GitHub. It’s honestly a bit overdue. Given our values of transparency and collaboration, we hope to involve more members of the community in the development process. We also hope this lets teams across the NEAR ecosystem plan ahead a bit better, build in parallel to Pagoda, and even get ideas for what to build based on what you feel is missing or should be prioritized. 

Right now this roadmap covers the rest of 2023 and we are committing to update the roadmap at least quarterly. The roadmap on GitHub is arranged into several views covering both the company objectives (OKRs) as well as larger workstreams (initiatives). We’ve further organized our roadmap views by product vertical and priority level, along with status and expected delivery date (which the product leads will update in real time). You may see some roadmap items displayed as “private”; this is because certain partnerships and enterprise workstreams must remain under NDA or embargo until launch. The Pagoda team will continue to iterate on this roadmap tool to make it an even richer resource for ecosystem partners and the NEAR community.

Delivering on the Open Web vision will take contributions far beyond Pagoda and we look forward to working alongside those who are as passionate about NEAR as we are. Please explore and leave comments or questions on the NEAR Social post – or on the roadmap itself – if you have feedback. 
NEAR Q4: Hackathons, Upgrades and Integrations
COMMUNITY
December 15, 2021
It’s been quite a year here at NEAR, and it’s been an even better Q4. There’s been so much activity, we thought we’d provide a quick snapshot of what’s been happening in and around the ecosystem. We’ve got upgrades, new projects, partnerships, meetups, the works.

Metabuild, take-two
NEAR is thriving! Here is a snapshot of all the things that have happened in Q4 of 2021.  

Metabuild is back! The first NEAR Metabuild took place earlier this year, and was all about the metaverse! We gave away $1 million in prize funds to projects, but this time we’re going even bigger. We’re looking for people at the very beginning of their crypto journey to bring their ideas for storytelling and education, as well developers looking to build their first app on Web3. On top of that, we have our crypto natives track, where we’re on the hunt for NEAR, Aurora, and Octopus developers building incredible ideas around DeFi, Web3, Gaming, Digital Art/Collectibles, Migration, Ecosystem, and tools. Oh and there’s $1 million in prizes to be awarded.  

deadmau5 x Portugal. The Man x Mintbase Launches and NFT
Mintbase, the next generation NFT utility engine announced a partnership with DJ and producer deadmau5 and rock band Portugal. The Man to release their new single as an NFT. The song, titled “this is fine” is being sold as a collection of 1 million NFTs. By releasing the song as an NFT, deadmau5, and Portugal. The Man could be the first artists to reach platinum status – selling one million copies in the US – with an NFT single release. Tooling UpdatesProtocol Upgrades 

Protocol Upgrades
The NEAR protocol went through 20 successful upgrades in 2021. This included bug fixes, improvements to performance, and changes to help improve usability and efficiency. 

Among the highlights were protocol update 35 – implicit accounts. This allows NEAR to have Ethereum style accounts that are public keys. They are created on-chain when someone transfers a nonzero amount of tokens to this account.

Another stand-out upgrade was protocol update 42. Here engineers lowered storage staking cost from 1N per 10kb to 1N per 100kb. This dramatically reduced the barrier of entry for contract developers. Before this change, when a developer deployed a 300kb contract, they needed to have at least 30 $NEAR on the account. After the change, they only need 3 $NEAR.

Lastly, protocol upgrade 48 brought our WebAssembly runtime from wasmer0 to wasmer2. This shift helped half the cost of wasm operations, helping unlock many applications building on Aurora that were previously blocked because their transactions could not fit in NEAR’s gas limit.

This trend continued throughout the year, culminating in our biggest protocol announcement this year, Sharding. 

Sharding is Here
In November, the NEAR network was successfully upgraded to become a sharded blockchain! This phase of the product roadmap, nicknamed Simple Nightshade, will kickstart a year of changes and additions to the NEAR blockchain that when complete, will make it super-fast, incredibly secure, and capable of onboarding millions of users into the world of Web3 without skipping a beat. 

Aurora Integrations
Aurora, the scaling solution that allows projects on Ethereum to utilize NEAR’s cutting-edge technology has had a busy quarter! Not only did it successfully launch its token on mainnet, but it has also announced a number of strategic partnerships. 

The first, brought Chainlink’s price feeds to enable rapid, EVM-compatible DeFi development. 

Next up was a partnership with ConsenSys. This partnership brings products like MetaMask, Infura, and Codefi to the NEAR ecosystem. Shortly after that, Aurora teamed up The Graph to help bring superior data indexing. 

Lastly, but not leastly, Aurora has partnered with another ecosystem project, Flux Protocol, to bring decentralized oracles to the NEAR ecosystem. 

MoonPay Takes NEAR worldwide 
NEAR took a giant leap forward in its goal to be the on-ramp for the world into web3 with a new partnership with MoonPay. From December, people in 150 countries worldwide, including the United States, will be able to buy NEAR using their credit or debit cards in just a few clicks. 

Flux Goes Live
In Q4 this year, another major new project launched on NEAR Mainnet. Flux is an oracle from the future. Completely decentralized, Flux is bringing secured data feeds to any and all high-throughput data apps — like trading platforms that need access to lots of reliable data — on the NEAR blockchain. Flux’s unique feature set will bring a next-generation oracle capable of powering mainstream use cases like derivatives, lending, stablecoins, dynamic NFTs, yield farming, reserve currencies, insurance, asset bridging, off-chain computation, and more to NEAR.


NEAR x CoinGecko Raffle Winner: Terms and Conditions
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 17, 2023
Introduction:
The following terms and conditions (the “Terms”) govern the use of the NEAR Foundation Raffle (the “Raffle”) provided by NEAR Foundation (“we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”). By participating in the Raffle, you (“you” or “Participant”) agree to be bound by these Terms. If you do not agree to these Terms, you may not be eligible to participate in the Raffle or receive any rewards. Note: the Raffle is in conjunction with CoinGecko’s NFT giveaway. Terms of the NFT giveaway can be found here. 

Eligibility:
The Raffle is available only to individuals who are at least 18 years old. By participating in the Raffle, you represent and warrant that you are at least 18 years old.

Participation in the Raffle:
We are excited to collaborate with CoinGecko users and allow them the opportunity to participate in the Raffle, you acknowledge and agree that any information you provide may be used by us in connection with the Raffle. To participate, users must follow these steps: 

CoinGecko users will be able to redeem a NEAR NFT Raffle ticket with 800 candies on CoinGecko’s Candy Rewards Store between Thursday, May 18, 2023, 10pm EDT / Friday, May 19, 2023, 10am MYT through Sunday, May 21, 2023, 10pm EDT / Monday, May 22, 2023, 10am MYT.
Upon Raffle ticket redemption, users will receive a unique Candy Rewards code and a link to a Sweep Widget page. Users are required to fill in their details and may complete bonus actions like following CoinGecko and NEAR’s social accounts to boost chances of winning.
20,000 winners will be randomly selected to win a NEAR NFT each on Monday, May 22, 2023, of which 1 special winner* out of the 20,000 winners will additionally score a pair of tickets to NEARCON 2023 and $5,000 USD paid out in NEAR tokens. Winners will receive an email with a Keypom link allowing them to claim the NFT and open a NEAR Wallet in the week of May 22, 2023. 
Winners will be required to hold the NFT in their NEAR wallet in order to be selected as the special winner that scores a pair of tickets to NEARCON 2023 and $5,000 USD worth of NEAR tokens.Only one winner will be selected as the special winner, of which will be notified via email and announced on the Near and CoinGecko’s social media channels on Friday, May 26, 2023.
Raffle Prize:
Selected winners will be announced and contacted via email. The Raffle prize consists of: 20,000 NFTs, 2x Tickets to NEARCON 2023 and $5,000 USD paid out in NEAR Tokens. The $5,000 amount can be used to book flights, accommodations, and as a meal stipend for NEARCON 2023. 

5. Disclaimer:

The Prize is awarded ‘as is’ and without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including without limitation any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The Raffle organizers and affiliated companies make no representations or warranties regarding the prize or its use and are not responsible for any claims arising out of or in connection with the prize or its use. Furthermore, we are not associated with any third-party companies or organizations mentioned in the raffle event (i.e. CoinGecko) or related promotional materials. The raffle event and prizes are solely sponsored and organized by us, and any reference to third-party companies or organizations is for informational purposes only. 

Limitation of Liability:
The Raffle organizers, sponsors, and affiliated companies are not responsible for any injury, loss, or damage to property or person, including death, arising out of participation in the raffle or use or misuse of the prize.

Intellectual Property:
The Service, including all content provided by the expert(s) or other participants, is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. You may not reproduce, distribute, or create derivative works from any content provided by the Service without our prior written consent.

Modification of Terms:
We reserve the right to modify these Terms at any time without notice. Your continued use of the Service following any changes to these Terms constitutes your acceptance of the revised Terms.

Governing Law:
These Terms and your use of the Service are governed by the laws of Switzerland without regard to its conflict of laws provisions.

Dispute Resolution:
Any disputes arising out of or in connection with these Terms or the Service will be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Switzerland Arbitration Association.

Entire Agreement:
These Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and us with respect to the Raffle and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral.

Contact Information:
If you have any questions or comments about these Terms, please contact us at [email protected].
NEAR’s SF Blockchain Week Event Preview
COMMUNITY
October 5, 2018
Next week, the crypto community descends on San Francisco in force for the 2018 SF Blockchain Week. For the NEAR team, this is our home turf and a great chance to host our friends from around the world so we’ll be actively involved.

For those who can’t make it in person, our online panel event is listed as well.

The week is broken into three major parts:

The Ethereum SF Hackathon this weekend (Oct 5–7)
The Epicenter Conference on Monday-Tuesday (Oct 8–9)
The Crypto Economics Security Conference on Wednesday-Thursday (Oct 10–11).
We’ll be attending all of these events in different capacities, and here’s how you can meet the team or learn more about what we’re doing:

Friday Oct 5 – Sunday Oct 7: ETH SF

We love developing as much as you do so a number of NEAR team members will be participating in the ETH SF hackathon over the weekend. We won’t tell you our ideas yet… but we hope to see you there.

Tuesday Oct 9 @ 9am: (Talk) From Sharded Databases to Sharded Blockchains

NEAR CEO Alex Skidanov will be delivering a talk at the Epicenter Conference which dives into the details of what makes sharding difficult, how the lessons from the database world transfer to blockchain and why sharding on the state, in particular, is so important. The team will be on hand to answer questions.

You’ll need tickets to the conference for this but the video will be available afterward.

RSVP Here

Tuesday Oct 9 @ 3:30pm-5pm: (Hands-on Dev Workshop) Building & Deploying a Highly Scalable Smart Contract Game

NEAR Protocol powers a highly scalable, mobile-friendly decentralized app platform. In this workshop, NEAR Protocol’s co-founder Illia Polosukhin will walk the audience through the steps of building scalable smart contracts: from collectibles to interactive cross-contract game. The audience will then have a chance to compete in a competition to build the best AI smart contract for this game to win the most tokens.

Again, you’ll need tickets to the conference for this one.

RSVP Here

Tuesday Oct 9 @ 6:30pm-8:30pm: (Panel Discussion) ABC Spotlight: Sharding for Blockchain Scalability

This event is organized by ABC Blockchain Community, as part of the SF Blockchain Week and the Spotlight Program. Our spots are limited so RSVP today to secure your spot.

Join founders of Harmony, Quarkchain, MOAC and NEAR Protocol for a panel discussion on sharding including

How sharding can solve blockchain scalability
Mainstream sharding solutions and the differences between them
Security challenges of current sharding solutions
Sharding vs two-layer solution
How to build industry grade database sharding & apply it to the blockchain
RSVP Here

Wednesday Oct 10 @ 5:30pm-8:00pm: (Panel Discussion) 500 Blockchain: State of Scaling — Latest Progress & Challenges

NEAR joins Oasis, Solana and Celer Network on stage to discuss scalability in a panel moderated by Bonnie Cheung from 500 Startups.

Scalability is undoubtedly one of the key roadblocks facing the public blockchains today. Since late 2017, we have seen an explosion in the number of new projects and highly-experienced developers looking to solve the scalability challenge from all angles. As we approach Q4 of 2018, where are we in terms of development, breakthroughs, and challenges?

Join us for a fun evening of information sharing & networking over drinks and nibbles!

In this panel discussion, you will learn:

Latest developments & breakthroughs across scaling solutions
Current challenges they are working on
Key milestones for the next 6–12 months
How new developers, founders, industry experts can get involved
RSVP Here

Thursday Oct 11 @ 9:00am-10:00am: (Online Panel Discussion) Blockchain Sharding Approaches (with Ethereum Foundation)

Moderated by Ivan Bogatyy from Metastable Capital

This event will have three teams dedicated to Ethereum sharding joining the stage with the NEAR team. The topics to be discussed include:

The current state of sharding project development
Current challenges with the various sharding approaches
Key milestones and plans for next 6–12 months
Sharding questions asked by moderator
Sharding questions from the audience
The panel will include:

Alex Skidanov & Illia Polosukhin who work on sharding at NEAR
Justin Drake who works on sharding at Ethereum Foundation
Preston Van Loon who works on sharding at Prysmatic Labs
Mamy André-Ratsimbazafy & Ryan Lipscombe who work on sharding at Status.im / Nimbus
RSVP Here

Saturday Oct 13 @ 10:30am-12:30pm: (Talk) From Sharded Databases to Sharded Blockchains

In this workshop, NEAR Protocol co-founder Illia Polosukhin will walk the audience through…

1) What sharding is
2) Why sharding is important
3) What are the challenges with sharding
4) How to build and deploy a mobile-friendly game that runs on a sharded blockchain

The audience will then have a chance to take part in a competition to build the best AI smart contract for the game with a live scoreboard.

RSVP Here

https://upscri.be/633436/
The Future of DAOs: Tooling, Standards, and Management
COMMUNITY
March 28, 2022
When DAOs, or decentralized autonomous organizations, entered the cultural lexicon in 2015, they were theoretical. No one had yet created one. 

Fast forward to 2022 and they are, in many ways, the organizing principle of Web3. Decentralized and autonomous, with their own governance procedures and voting structures, DAOs are the entities that make Web3 go. 

From 1 token-1 vote to delegated, role-based, and tiered token-based voting, they now come with a custom toolkit of roles, “access” levels, and more. And they’re only just starting to evolve.
“The DAO trend right now is about where NFTs were in 2020,” says Ozymandius, Co-founder and CPO of Open Forest Protocol (OFP). “Which means we are only starting to scratch the surface of customizations and functionality.”

But where are DAOs going as Web3 blockchain platforms, like NEAR, begin onboarding the masses? To get an idea of the future DAO landscape, the NEAR Foundation turned to a number of NEAR community members who are doing pioneering work with DAOs to find out. 

Balancing creativity with coordination
To unleash the next wave of DAOs, Sputnik, Astro, and other NEAR-based launchpads will be vital. 

The code that is Sputnik, the original DAO-creation machine, with its customization features was built with developers in mind. Sputnik allows for the funding of bounties on-chain, communication amongst DAOs, Council Structures for roles within a DAO (each with its own unique set of permissions), embedded Social $Tokens, on-chain polling of participants, and more. Sputnik’s feature set will only continue to grow in the future with the V3 release. 

“Sputnik V2 is completely underrated with the level of customizations and permissions possible,” says Ozymandius. “From when Illia [Polosukhin, NEAR Protocol co-founder]  initially presented it to a group of us in May of 2021, my first thought was: ‘Holy shit, you are going to be able to put the European Union on Sputnik V2’. I hope in next 6 months to a year that we start to see more sophisticated DAO customizations using Sputnik V2 and when Sputnik V3 comes out.” 

Astro, on the other hand, is very plug-and-play—a more simplified DAO launchpad. OFP’s Ozymandias recommends Astro for those who want to creatively experiment with DAOs, which will help them flourish. 

“More than anything, we need some creativity and R & D,” says Ozymandius. People who are looking to see what’s creatively possible instead of just making a product.

While great engines of creativity, DAOs can also be difficult to coordinate. To counter this, Ozymandius believes there will be more pooling of resources for coordinated purchases or acquisition, collective bonding of assets for treasury build-up, or collective pooling of assets for service offerings (LP DAOs, Data/Analytics DAOs), etc. 

“I also think we are going to see them become more hierarchical to balance the most committed members versus the general community member,” Ozymandius says. “I also think we will see more care in the design of who can propose legislation to a DAO and vote on such legislation.”

Beyond the technical innovations, there is something more organic at work—more human. Tracey Bowen, Founder of H.E.R. DAO, a womxn-led developer DAO championing innovation and diversity, believes that in the future groups will probably be able to call themselves a DAO without ‘in-chain’ markers like a wallet or voting mechanisms. 

“I see that shifting into people organizing themselves in a way which is more reflective of their actual goals,” says Bowen. “I’m actually in favor of relaxing the emphasis on automation and concentrating more on human expression in terms of organization being more fluid.”

In the last six months, DAOs have entered the cultural vernacular, with thought pieces appearing regularly in business publications like Forbes, Bloomberg, and others . More concretely, people have seen them far away from the Web3 world. In late 2021, ConstitutionDAO hit the headlines when it tried to collectively buy a copy of the U.S. Constitution. 

As AstroDAO’s Jordan Gray notes, people are starting to understand the overall idea of DAOs, and the logistics of starting or participating in one. This curiosity will pave the way for the future of decentralized organizations. 

“This opens up more questions that I don’t think anybody has answers to yet because there’s a lot of discovery happening,” says Gray. “That’s also the Web3 space in general: we are wayfinding. We have ideas on the ways these things can work, and we try them out. Sometimes it’s successful and we repeat. Sometimes it’s a failure and we course correct, figure out what went wrong, and how things could go better.”

Upgrades to DAO tooling & operations
DAOs will have more clear cut archetypes, with tools and systems to help run them. They will be legal entities, companies, and non-profits. They will also be one-off use cases, and often a type of community building, like a group of friends doing stuff together with a shared wallet. 

“This would be accompanied by more clear legal precedents with regard to DAOs and trial-and-error-based learnings that set general guidelines for how they operate,”  says Open Forest Protocol’s Rim Berjack. 

Berjack, who has worked with DAOs for several years on a technical level, is keen on developing tooling, complimentary communication channels and platforms, and software or services for DAO treasury management.
“I’ve been noticing kernels of these tools emerging as we witness DAOs of great scale learn how to create formal systems and establish best practices, often evolving into a complex organism of hundreds of contributors,” she says. “I foresee the business of DAO tooling and management becoming an industry in itself as more projects that launch as DAOs or later become one bloom into multi-billion dollar enterprises.” 

Chloe Lewis, Founder of Marma J Foundation, a Web3 platform for social good, also believes tooling will be vital. In general, tooling focused on treasury and asset management, or which gives DAOs legal frameworks to become fully incorporated entities. This will make Web3 more interactive with Web2 and the physical world. 

“The difficulty lies mostly in the ‘legal wrapper’ that needs to be set up and the regulatory climate ambiguity,” Lewis says. “The Marma J Foundation is setting up a non-profit organization to support in this area, but it isn’t a process that can be done in a purely decentralized way. Once done, though, the foundation can interact with IRL aspects while the DAO interacts with Web3 aspects.”

Organizationally, DAOs could take any number of paths, and there won’t be a one-size-fits-all approach. Some DAOs might remain fiercely decentralized. Others could establish hierarchies, particularly those with large memberships.

“Realistically, I think we’ll see a spectrum of organizational structures depending on the character of the DAO,” says Berjack. “DAOs are a technology, a tool, and i’s a choice to implement familiar structures or entirely innovate new ways of decision making.”

For Illia Polosukhin, Co-founder of the NEAR Protocol, DAOs are a way to open up what he calls the “organization design space.” 

“DAOs can program any kind of interaction between people, so we will see more and more new structures of people, compensation mechanics, and permissioned ways of interacting with an entity,” says Polosukhin. “At the same time, we will see more KYC (Know Your Customer), employment laws, and payroll integrations. This will bring existing DAOs closer to familiar company structures.”

“Decentralized doesn’t mean there is no need for coordination and leaders, and that needs to be more integrated into tooling and people’s interactions,” he says. “Making it clear who in the DAO is responsible for what direction of the work, who is contacting people, and how newcomers can onboard and become active members beyond just the onboarding guide in Discord.”


Multi-chain DAO standards
In Web3, each chain has its own approach, culture, tools, and this type of diversity is certainly a strength. But for a multi-chain Web3 future, DAO standards between blockchains will be necessary.

A working group called DAO Star is tackling this issue on NEAR. The goal is to normalize the way decentralized organizations publish information about their activities. 

“It’s kind of like RSS for DAOs,” Astro’s Jorday Gray explains. “This is something that Deep DAO and Messari are part of as well. The ways DAOs transmit and publish information about themselves can show up in these aggregators, and it doesn’t matter what chain they’re on. I think that it’s essential to reach some standard point for these communications, so that everybody is interoperable.”

These standards will also be useful as more Web3 activities decentralize. With such standards and cross-chain bridges, DAOs will be able to work together in more seamless ways.

The multi-chain future will also see users participating in DAOs without a direct on-chain account where they function. They will also be able to trigger actions on other chains with tools like Rainbow Bridge.

“DAOs can have members represented by their addresses on other chains and read from the state of that chain, provided by Rainbow Bridge,” Polosukhin explains. “Similarly, a they can form a request to Rainbow Bridge to pass it to the other chain to execute it. This will provide a seamless way to onboard new users into DAOs independent of where the user is coming from.”

Marma J’s Lewis says interactions between DAOs are already quite frequent, albeit occasionally inefficient. “The agreements they have with each other will get much more complex and therefore potentially efficient and beneficial for the communities involved,” Lewis says. 

Gray hopes to see core functionality, like aspects of the treasury and governance (voting), broken off from DAOs. Once this happens, then new, creative interfaces and experiences will be built around them, with which it and end users can interface.  

“[Imagine] a musician or an artist that wants to up their engagement with a post on Twitter,” says Gray. “They could set up a smart contract that allows a user to link their wallet, link their Twitter account, and if they interact with the posts—retweet, like it, whatever—then they get something: either an NFT or fungible token or even some NEAR.”

And when an artist wants to spend 100 $NEAR on more engagement for new posts, they can put it to a vote in the DAO. Unlike Web2’s ad networks, Web3 would create a closer connection between fans and their favorite artists, musicians, and other creators. The layers between them won’t exist, and fans will be rewarded directly by the artist or DAO.

In the future, a constellation of interfaces could grow around and interact with a primary DAO, like the one envisioned above by Gray. For this to happen, though, the information on interfacing with them must defined more clearly. The problem is that smart contracts, like the ones behind DAOs, don’t really publish interfaces to themselves in a clean way. 

“That’s something we’re doing currently with Astro DAO and TenK: for smart contracts to actually have some kind of manifesto about what they’re capable of doing,” Gray explains. “Once published as a JSON or some computer-readable format, then any React app or frontend could look at any smart contract and create an interface user interaction.”

“This will aid a ton with discoverability of contract feature sets, allowing for things like crawlers and searchable indices of smart contracts.”

When DAOs won’t be called DAOs
One day, DAOs will stop referring to themselves as DAOs. They will be, like their Web2 predecessors, just apps—autonomously running investment tools, community-focused organizations, sports teams, ReFi projects, and so much more. You name it and DAOs will be able to do it. 

So, when the word “DAO” is no longer attached to an app or project’s name, it could be said that Web3 will have arrived in the mainstream consciousness. 

“While the term helps distinguish it from centralized Web2 platforms, once mainstream culture fully grasps the DAO concept, the term will be rendered superfluous,” OFP’s Berjack says. 

Polosukhin prefers the term “Digital Cooperative”, believing it gives people a better grasp of how DAOs can organize people in digital realms. “I think the more examples that are successful, the better intuition people will have around what they can do with them,” he says. 

“Right now everything is very early and experimental,” adds Berjack. “So, more than anything, I am looking forward to the DAO’s conceptual maturity that will come with time.”

Stay tuned for the second installation of where DAOs will go back. In the meantime, read Part 1: How DAOs are Changing Everything, Part 2: Exploring Astro DAO, and Part 3: Life-Changing DAOs.
How Solaire is Revolutionizing the Fashion Industry with Web3 Technology and Building the Retail Infrastructure on NEAR
CASE STUDIES
March 30, 2023
Solaire – an exciting web3 retail platform that merges physical and digital assets – is revolutionizing the way consumers interact with fashion brands. By harnessing the power of web3 and the NEAR blockchain, Solaire is building out key protocol infrastructure and APIs that will expand decentralized retail and unlock new opportunities for both shoppers and fashion brands alike.

Solaire is pioneering phygital use cases and brands will be able to leverage the NEAR blockchain in tandem with Solair’s powerful APIs to engage with their audience in novel ways. Solaire’s suite of APIs seamlessly integrates with a brand’s existing retail channels. This enables new revenue channels and richer data. 

Solaire’s entire backend is fully on-chain and facilitates an easy-to-use web2 interface, with no wallet or crypto needed from shoppers. The NEAR blockchain helps Solaire provide these benefits for brands, as well as unique integrations with NEAR. This includes Solaire integration with the NEAR Mainnet, native NEAR wallet support, and the NEAR token as a payment option.

How Solaire is Changing Fashion with Phygital
Solaire establishes a 1:1 connection between a physical object and its digital twin. Brands can then leverage Solaire’s infrastructure and suite of APIs to engage customers with NFTs and phygital experiences in a seamless, user-friendly way, removing some of the typical web3 friction points.

“We aim to do all the hard work on the backend so that brands and consumers can enjoy a familiar user experience with all the benefits of Web3 but without the hassle of dealing with wallet or crypto,” says Vivian Zhang, CEO of Solaire. “And NEAR’s blockchain is perfectly suited to run enterprise-level protocols to ensure a seamless and frictionless user experience.”

Soliare infrastructure helps brands create meaningful digital twins for physical goods, as well as providing a means for consumers to buy and trade phygital assets. Solaire allows for minting unique NFTs attached to physical goods and offers an end-to-end solution for securing and tracking a product from manufacturing through its entire product lifecycle.

Solaire has already collaborated with major fashion brands like Freeman’s Limited Edition Phygital Harry Potter™ Collection and Ilona Song. Smart contracts facilitate shipping, returns, and exchanges all on the NEAR blockchain This allows customers to shop and purchase with transparency and confidence.

Benefits of Phygital Assets for Fashion Brands
Phygital assets are a new way for fashion brands to engage consumers, combining the physical and digital worlds to create a more immersive shopping experience. For example, when a customer buys a dress in real life, they also receive a digital wearable. This can be in the form of an AR filter, a digital skin in their favorite game, or to wear in the metaverse. 

“Solaire’s mission is to empower the retail industry with web3 tools to cultivate a more connected and automated ecosystem,” Zhang continues. “With our suite of APIs, brands are able to maximize revenue and gain valuable data from digital assets, facilitate the secondary market, and build community.”

Brands can then use Solaire as a powerful CRM tool. Through the digital twin in customers’ wallets, brands will have a constant open channel of communication with both the primary customer and secondary owners. Smart contracts also automate royalties from secondary selling, giving brands visibility into trading data.

Another exciting feature is the secondary market experience brands can now provide. Solaire’s backend enables peer-to-peer physical asset trading without a middleman, utilizing blockchain-secured data and smart contracts. Buyers and sellers can independently confirm possession and authenticity of assets on-chain, and smart contracts resolve any disputes.

Solaire and NEAR Building a Phygital Fashion Future
“We’re building on NEAR because it champions community, and it’s one we have found to be incredibly supportive,” remarks Vivian Zhang, CEO of Solaire. “We’ve been able to connect and collaborate with so many partners as we build an entire retail ecosystem together on NEAR.”

As fashion brands recognize the value of web3, NFTs, and phygital technology as important audience touchpoints, Solaire has the potential to partner with even more fashion brands and designers. Solaire’s game-changing approach and tech stack – aided by the NEAR blockchain – will bring web3 to more fashionistas without some of the usual pain points.

“Together with NEAR, we hope to lay out the Web3 infrastructure for the retail industry to onboard the next billion users into web3,” concluded Zhang. 
NEAR & Gaming: A Deep Dive into OP Games
COMMUNITY
August 15, 2022
Alongside DeFi and NFTs, Web3 gaming is proving to be one of the most vibrant and creative spaces in crypto. From play-and-earn titles to fractionalized game ownership, crypto gaming’s moment is now. And it’s evolving in real-time. 

OP Games, arguably the most successful gaming company building on NEAR right now. With Arcadia, its aptly-named community-owned arcade, a plug-and-play developer SDK, and monetization features, OP Games is revolutionizing gaming with Web3 technologies. 

In the latest installment of our 4-part series “NEAR & Gaming”, we take a deep dive into OP Games. Not only does OP Games have some lessons for developers building during a down market, they have offer up some useful ideas for onboarding Web2 users into the Web3 world, and more. 

Born in the crypto bear market of 2018
While OPGames is a major gaming platform on NEAR, its origins weren’t exactly auspicious. Growing out of the mobile gaming company Alto, OPGames emerged in the crucible of 2018’s Great Crypto Bear Market. 

Co-founders Chase Freo (CEO) and Paul Gadi (CTO) had a background in Web2 gaming and on other tech projects. A game publisher and investor, Freo grew disillusioned with the 70/30 revenue split that was standard for game publishers and designers. But it was through their work in Web2 gaming that Freo and Gadi, and one of the other original Alto founders, Gabby Dizon, came to know each other. 

“We realized we aligned in terms of how gaming would work outside of the traditional [mobile and desktop]space,” says Freo. “We also realized we were  all into blockchain and crypto, so we co-founded OP Games, which was called Alto at the time.”

Given the bear market of the period, Freo and Gadi  started building a lot of different products, especially in the NFT space. At the time, Web3 developer funds were hard to come by. Freo and Gadi watched as Dapper Labs and The Sandbox got funding, and thought these were good signs. 

While funding didn’t immediately materialize for OP Games, the pair’s work on NFTs was not in vain. Indeed, that work convinced Freo and Gadi of OP Games’ direction and, ultimately, led them to NEAR. 

“There’s a certain way game developers make money in Web2 and it’s skewed towards bigger game companies, bigger game developers, and bigger game publishers,” Freo explains. Developers gravitate toward publishers, who can distribute the game and onboard millions of players. Unless, of course, a game goes viral, like Flappy Bird—which is rare. 

“Because of this extreme reliance on publishers, the deal flows became very one-sided,” says Freo. “And that made me question if I was doing anybody a favor by being a game publisher. That changes the power structure in terms of how much a game developer earns versus how much a publisher earns, and how then how much Apple and Google earn. So there’s a lot of gatekeeping involved.”

What Freo and Gadi saw in Web3 was elegantly simple and profound: the democratization of gaming. Each player had their own wallet and developers didn’t need one million players to succeed. 

“Most players in Web3 are also paying players via NFTs, right,” Freo explains. “Obviously, there’s a lot of experimentation involved in play-to-earn, which has now evolved to play-and-earn. But we’re hopeful and we’re always thinking about newer models that will benefit people in the long run.”

Building OPGames for other games developers
During the 2018/2019 crypto downturn, OP Games received grants from a few different entities. Freo says there is a tendency to spend funds on an entire product suite. “Build the dream”, as he refers to it. But Freo and Gadi took another approach. 

“We realized very quickly that we have to be very modular in terms of what we’re building, so that we can still continuously create something, even though it’s at a much slower pace,” says Freo. “But it would allow us to create multiple things that would be useful right away in that period.”

Freo compares the  OP Games platform’s modularity to Legos: it gives developers all of the pieces they need to design and launch successful Web3 games. Early on in this slow build process, Freo and Gadi developed SDKs and APIs that game developers could use in their own slow builds. 

“We modularize how we want to build,” says Freo. “We want to make sure that each and every single one of these product lines will be as useful now as it will be in the future. And once we succeeded in building these products,  it was much easier to fundraise when the bull market was in full swing.” 

“We’re building the supply of games in Web3 by bringing Web2 game developers into the mix,” he adds. “And we have this tooling, like Legos, that they can use right away. It’s simplified so that it’s easy for their games to integrate or reap the benefits of a Web3 token offer.”

A look inside the OP Games feature set
After pivoting into Web3 gaming, OP Games began developing its first feature—the “Tournaments” function. This feature allowed any Javascript game to use OP Games’s JS SDK, creating a plug-and-play environment  asynchronous play.  

“Game developers could now set up their own tournaments on a daily or monthly basis, or however they wished to do it,” Freo explains. “They could set up parameters in terms of what the pot would look like, what percentage would go back to players and developers, and so on and so forth.”

OP Games next created Arcadia.fun, a Web3 game arcade where game designers could load their games using the SDK.  Currently in Alpha, Arcadia will soon get an official launch with a dedicated website. To date, there are 43 games on Arcadia, including one of OP Games own titles, Arcadeum Arena, a hybrid auto-chess player, avatar-battler. 

The team also built a Leaderboard feature that showcased the top players for any given game. After launching Tournaments, Arcadia, and Leaderboard, the team turned their attention to a player-versus-player (PvP) feature. So, instead of playing against a game’s artificial intelligence, OP Games players could play against each other. 

“Currently we’re working on NFT wagering,” says Freo. “This will allow players to wager their NFTs against each other. And we fulfill that position based on whomever wins a specific game on the Arcadia platform. On the back end there are these little feature sets that we’ve built for developers to use that they can plug into their game so that they can exist in Arcadia.”

To make this all happen, OP Games allows players to log in with their NEAR wallet. This makes it possible for the gaming platform to offer $NEAR as a buy-in and pay-out for winnings. While NEAR’s technical advantages made it the obvious choice for OP Games development, Freo and Gadi envision OP Games as ultimately blockchain agnostic. A multi-chain, Open Web gaming platform that can help onboard the masses into the larger Web3 ecosystem. 

“All of these games can be played on the web or on a mobile-optimized web,” says Freo. “That’s where we’re at at the moment. And we’re still building a few things, specifically in our marketplace, and a much bigger metagame for the platform itself,. We will be launching that game before the end of the year.”

Welcoming Web2 developers into crypto gaming
Rust and Solidity are great programming languages for Web3 development. But Freo notes that the vast majority of developers design games using Unity (C++), Javascript, Swift, and others. 

Which is why NEAR’s forthcoming Javascript SDK will be a game changer in making the NEAR ecosystem platforms like OP Games great creative centers for Web2 and Web3 developers alike. 

“A big chunk of these game developers that we’re working with are actually not crypto-native,” says Freo. “Many designers wanted to move into crypto and take advantage of the promise of Web3, but they don’t know exactly where to start.”

“Traditionally, they’re building on open source Web3 game engines that support Javascript and on Unity as well,” he adds. “I think about 80% of games are being built in Unity. “

NEAR’s Javascript SDK will help attract Web3 game developers. But, going forward, that will be only part of the work toward capitalizing on Web3’s democratizing power. To make development even easier, Freo says it’s vital to optimize game development on NEAR using Rust. 

“Within Human Guild, which I’m also part of, we’re trying to invest in a lot of infrastructure to make sure that we’re able to facilitate game development in Rust,” he says. “And on the infrastructure level, NEAR is working to make sure that there is support for all game developers.” 


NFTs on NEAR: Beyond the Hype
COMMUNITY
May 16, 2022
Soaring both in growth and interest in 2022, the Open Web movement has become a cultural zeitgeist. Cryptocurrency and blockchain, critical to reimagining the web, are together championed as the remedy to our currently broken global economy. Without argument, 2021 was the year of the non-fungible token, more commonly known by its now ubiquitous acronym, NFT. Sales of NFTs surged to $17.7B in the last year, up from $82.5M in 2020—a 200-fold increase. 

NFTs have permeated all corners of today’s society and are here to stay. According to Google Trends, “NFT” surpassed “crypto” in search queries in December 2021. Bored Ape Yacht Club NFTs continue to sell to a slew of celebrities for millions; footwear and apparel behemoth NIKE acquired a dedicated NFT team in 2021; Saturday Night Live even featured a skit on the subject. 

While it’s clear that NFTs are mainstream culture, beneath the hype lies a powerful piece of malleable technology. NFTs are so much more than exclusive pictures recorded on the blockchain. They are also more than collectibles hung on the digital gallery walls of their owner’s wallet. 

Developers are leveraging NFTs on NEAR to create artist storefronts, power gaming platforms, release music, and fund vertical farms in urban spaces. And that’s just the beginning. 

Minting NFTs cheaper, faster, and securely 
Every NFT starts as an idea. The journey that idea must take to become an NFT used to be a convoluted one. It required technical prowess from the end user and was costly to mint. This journey was elegantly simplified by Mintbase, a global platform that allows anyone to create NFTs without developer skills. 

As the “Shopify for NFTs,” people use Mintbase’s platform to create and sell music, art, memberships, photography, and so much more. Event organizers can even create NFTs to sell tickets for their next event. 

Creating a digital storefront is the first step to minting NFTs on Mintbase. To do so, a user creates a smart contract and pays a gas fee. This is typically the most costly part of the process, especially on Ethereum, where gas fees are high from network congestion.

NEAR gas fees are impressively lower than Ethereum’s. NEAR features a more efficient contract execution model that requires less computation and uses the Nightshade dynamic sharding approach, making the network infinitely scalable. On Mintbase, deploying a store and minting NFTs is now significantly cheaper and more accessible to a diverse population of creators.

Building the future of gaming, one block at a time
OP Games, a Web3 gaming arcade platform, combines the worlds of gaming and NFTs. The fusino is creating a radical transformation in gameplay that gives both power and control back to the players. Using fractionalized NFTs, OP Games’ HTML5 arcade allows the community to effectively own a piece of the games they play.

With this type of collective ownership, the OP Games community will see NFT price appreciation as any game grows and becomes more successful. This effectively monetizes their time and attention during gameplay. Furthermore, the OP Games DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) establishes a relationship between the players and developers, giving the former a voice in how the game evolves over time.

Through the OP Games DAO, the community can ask a game’s developers to create different levels and new in-game assets that they can buy, own, and trade while playing. Whereas most gaming platforms lock digital collectibles in their own ecosystem, OP Games users can bring in accomplishments and skins from other games. This gives players more meaningful rewards for the time they invest in virtual worlds—all made possible through NFTs.

Reinventing the record label with NFTs
DAO Records uses NFTs to drastically reimagine what a record label can be. Building tools to help write the future of the music industry, the label is pushing the not-so-radical idea that musicians should be fairly compensated for their songs. DAO Records disrupts the antiquated recording industry on multiple fronts. Its founders see the organization as an audio NFT distribution platform and virtual event service for artists of all kinds.

Founders Vandal and DJ Lethal Skillz are encouraging artists to release and package new music as audio NFTs, whose smart contracts allow for an entirely more equitable royalty structure in perpetuity. Indie artists of any genre can easily mint audio NFTs and release their music. DAO Records sees the future of the music industry as a place when musicians control their work as well as their relationship with fans.

The label released its first audio NFT in February 2020: a gold edition of a cover art collectible and unlockable WAV file. Two months later, DAORecords pushed audio NFT boundaries even further with the release of their first official interactive audio NFT. Titled Mint Tape Vol 1, the NFT is a USB cassette of 25 songs and 30 accompanying artworks. Since its inception, DAO Records has released 350+ NFTs from over 100 artists.

Beyond NFT releases, DAO Records has held over 50 virtual events in their cryptovoxel space, “The Playground.” Their goal is to build a lively, dynamic metaverse community for music and art-related virtual events in The Playground and other custom-built virtual venues. 

Changing the way we connect with food
Lisbon-based Raiz uses NFTs to help fund vertical farms—the practice of growing crops in vertically stacked layers—in under-utilized urban spaces. Its mission is to transform urban areas into epicenters for the growing and harvesting of foods for local communities and restaurants. Founded by Emiliano Guitterez, Raiz is ardently opposed to the agriculture industry’s stagnant business model, which ships harvested food across global markets. 

Raiz is bringing renewed focus back to the local community while maintaining incredible taste and nutrients in their crops. With this approach, the team thinks it can disrupt the current unsustainable model. Raiz’s vertical farming model also incorporates controlled-environment agriculture, optimizing plant growth through sustainable technology that directly impacts our planet.

Raiz uses NEAR-powered NFTs to generate yield and offer “tokenized impact for the bold.” Through NFTs, Raiz makes and releases digital artworks of plants linked to impact metrics such as carbon emissions and water savings—significant issues in traditional agriculture and industrial farming markets. 

Raiz is transforming local hydroponic, vertical farming, and solar energy systems into investable crypto assets by linking the physical with the digital. Raiz’s NFT model can be used for other local food-growing efforts as well, giving people greater access to tokenized environmental and local impact.

NFTs as a gateway, not a barrier 
People, ideas, and projects built on NEAR operate on the new frontier of Web3 technology. Now creators, developers, business owners, and individuals can leave their legacy in the digital world through NFTs. Low gas fees and fast transactions combined with a no-compromises approach to security make NEAR Protocol the ideal platform. NEAR empowers these creators, who can directly engage with their fans and end users, accomplishing new feats through NFTs. 

NFTs are producing a giant leap in transparency and accountability when distributing content, running a business, or supporting a cause. All of the backend accounting is done transparently on the blockchain. It is visible on NEAR Explorer, allowing for transparency paired with an actual ability to illustrate the flow of funds.

Royalties on NEAR follow the NFTs in perpetuity, allowing for royalty enforcement across different marketplaces and into secondary sales. With the royalties embedded in the NFT token, they must be respected to complete the transfer of the NFT. With complete customization, royalties can be split between multiple contributors, beneficiaries, and DAOs. This standard is the first of its kind and a key differentiator for NFT developers, artists, and users alike.

Thanks to NEAR’s robust framework and infrastructure, the greatest barrier is the capacity to innovate instead of the technology itself. Supporting documentation and open source repositories for building NFT marketplaces on NEAR are available to all. Any developer can build on these concepts and choose different elements to get brand new ideas off the ground. Any user can translate an idea to an NFT seamlessly. A low barrier to entry for developers and creators translates to massive exposure and accessibility to users. 

Beyond the hype, NFTs are transforming multiple industries across today’s landscape. Creators are gaining momentum and disrupting the status quo through seamless and easy tech, all powered on NEAR.
On usability of blockchain applications
DEVELOPERS
April 17, 2019
On usability of blockchain applications
A scalable blockchain in the modern world is like a stadium in the middle of a desert: it has a lot of seats, but nobody to sit on them
Imagine you want to play a blockchain game. For example, say you want to get a cryptokitty. Or play some collectible card game. It is actually a pretty involved process. You need to:

Install Metamask;

Create a key pair, and securely store the private key; If you want to later play from another device, you need to understand how to transfer it to that device;

Register on Coinbase;

Do a KYC, which involves sending your documents to Coinbase;

Wait for a few days;

Buy Ether. Yes, you need to make a purchase before you can even try the game!

Transfer Ether from Coinbase;

Finally, buy your kitty! Though now you need to pay for every interaction with the game, and your latency is at least 20 seconds.

Modern games and applications running on blockchains report a whopping 95–97% drop-off rate during the above onboarding process. That means that out of 100 users who try the application only 5 or fewer actually get to start using it!

The problem above can be roughly split into three subproblems:

The necessity to install a browser plugin (or have a wallet application) to securely interact with the chain;

The necessity to have and understand public/private keys security;

The necessity to pay for gas for each transaction.

Items 1 and 2 above are mandatory for interacting with the blockchain securely, they are designed to make sure the user doesn’t lose their funds or assets. The last item, besides providing a financial incentive to the miners, is also necessary to keep the blockchain itself secure — if transactions were free, it would be trivial to DDoS the system by spamming it with lots of free useless transactions.

Once a person is involved in a particular blockchain ecosystem, such as Ethereum or NEAR, they do have the browser plugin or wallet installed, have some assets on their accounts, and have all their devices set up to use the proper key pairs. For them using Web3 applications is relatively easy, besides maybe the fact that the applications are slow (latency and throughput of blockchain applications are beyond the scope of this writeup, check out our previous posts on sharding: one and two, as well as tech deep dives with developers of plasma: one and two, and state channels).

However, as of today, the majority of internet users do not use blockchain, and if we want it to change, we need to make the onboarding for them as streamlined as possible. In the ideal world developing a decentralized application running on a blockchain shall be no harder than building a nodeJS application, and once such an application is deployed, a user that never used blockchain before should be able to just open it in a browser and start interacting with it.

Let’s consider each of the barriers described above, what efforts are made to fix them today, and what changes we are developing on the protocol level to support them.

If you prefer video, you can watch me giving a talk at Berkeley on the same topic here:


Browser plugins / Wallet apps

You do need some custom binary running on your machine to securely interact with the blockchain. The motivation behind it is that anything hosted that you just open in your browser is completely controlled by the host, and thus can be arbitrarily changed at any point. Even if the hosted solution stores the keys locally encrypted, the code of it can later be changed to fetch the data from the local storage and send it to the remote server immediately after it was decrypted to be used for some interaction with the blockchain.

However, consider a person not involved in blockchain today buying crypto. Are they likely to set up their account locally and store funds there, or just store them on Coinbase, which is a completely centralized service? They will probably choose the latter.

Similar reasoning shall apply to use decentralized applications. When the user starts interacting with the blockchain they shall be able to do that through a hosted solution. It will provide lower security, since the centralized entity will have an ability to take over the account, but early on the user doesn’t have much to lose, so much security is no worse than what one gets today with centralized services to whom the users trust a great deal of their assets and data.

To emphasize this point, observe that most people install MetaMask from the Firefox or Chrome extensions catalog, and wallet applications from iTunes or PlayStore, effectively trusting both the MetaMask / wallet applications developers, and some big player such Mozilla, Apple or Google. It is extremely rare for one to install MetaMask from source, after carefully examining the code. Thus we already trust the security of our accounts to centralized entities.

There are solutions developed today that developers can integrate into their decentralized applications that would make it possible to interact with the application without installing browser plugins and wallet applications, such as Portis. The problem with such services is that once one trusted their private key to such a service, ultimately the security of the account is permanently compromised. If one later wants to get the full ownership over the account, they must create a new account and transfer all assets to such an account. If a particular application doesn’t provide a convenient way to transfer assets, the user will never be able to gain full ownership over such assets.

One solution to this problem is to have a contract-based account such that the user can replace the key that controls the account once they wish to do so. But for this to work the account needs to be contract-based from day one, and unless Portis or other service creates such a contract based account by default, users will not have this ability. Further, contract-based accounts cannot do everything that a regular account protected by a private key can do.

In NEAR each account is contract based by default, and a hosted wallet is provided by NEAR. Ultimately the user can start interacting with the blockchain by using the hosted wallet, and then later at any instance update the security of the account by creating a new key pair locally and updating the account to use such a key pair.

Someone suggested a term we like a lot for this approach: progressive security. The user transitions from the highest usability and low security to the highest security and low usability over time, as their involvement and investment into the blockchain increases.

Understanding private/public key pairs

If we convinced you that progressive security is a good thing, and hosted wallets are a way to go, key pairs are gone naturally. In the simplest approach, the hosted wallet stores the private keys of all the users in its own hosted database, and provide its own authentication layer to the users. It can offer them to use Facebook login, Google login, or just good old email and password option. Only once the user wants to transition from using the hosted wallet do they need to set up a private key properly, and learn how to transfer it to other devices.

Interestingly, with the contract based accounts, the transfer process itself can be done easier while maintaining the full security. Instead of transferring the private key to another device via some insecure channel, the contract that governs user’s account can have two methods: `proposeNewSk` and `approveSk`, where the first method can be invoked by anyone, and adds a new private key into a list of proposed private keys for the account, and `approveSk` can only be called with a signature from one of the existing private keys on the account, and can approve any of the proposed private keys for the account. This way a user can set up a brand new key pair on the new device, propose the new private key from such device, and approve it from the existing device.

Gas fees

Any transaction that is executed on chain consumes a somewhat large amount of resources. For a state change to be executed securely, a large number of independent entities need to validate the state transition before it is applied. Since there’s some amount of resources spent on executing the transaction, it cannot be free.

When one compares web3 to web2, they often argue that web2 services by nature are free today. One doesn’t pay for every transaction when they use Facebook. But in reality, they do. Facebook would not provide a free service to the users if the expected long term value from the user didn’t exceed the resources spent on the resources spent processing their requests and storing their data, as well as the cost of acquiring such a user. When using Facebook, users both pay with their data, access to which Facebook then abuses in the most unacceptable ways, and with their attention. The following screenshot literally doesn’t have a single block of information that is not sponsored:

(the value of x is 2)

In the case of the blockchain, if an application developer believes that the total lifetime value from the user will exceed the gas cost for their transaction, they shall be able to pay for such transactions. It is one of the few ideas that come from EOS that makes a lot of sense. Similarly, if the hosted wallet has some value in users using the applications, they can choose to cover the costs as well. For example, NEAR might opt in to cover some gas costs for each user, since it is highly motivated to get higher adoption for the protocol. CryptoKitties can choose to cover the cost for interactions with their contracts, since users that start playing CryptoKitties are very likely to buy one, and the expected value of a user is extremely high.

This only solves one part of the puzzle: offsetting the costs of executing transactions. If users don’t have to pay for transactions, they can spam the system with free transactions, and saturate the allowance that the hosted wallet or the application developers set for free usage. But similarly, people who use Facebook can spam them with free requests and saturate their resources. This problem is by no means unique to blockchain and has plenty of solutions already existing. The hosted wallet can choose to implement one such DDoS prevention solution, and still provide users with free transactions.

There’s still a problem. The model in which someone pays for the user expecting some value from them later is easily abusable. There’s a reason why Google, Facebook, Apple, and other tech giants have non-transparent privacy policies and completely disrespect users’ privacy. The entire motivation behind web3 is to put an end to such practices, but the very way we try to attract users promotes such practices again.

There’s however a fundamental difference. In web3, while the user can start using a service paying with the future expected value, they can at any point switch to paying for transactions themselves and use a hosted wallet, or a browser extension, that doesn’t try to take any advantage of the user’s privacy.

Outro

With the progressive security concept and particular solutions above, we can provide users with the onboarding as simple as it is today in web2, with an ability to upgrade to the full blockchain security at any moment in the future.

We are writing a separate blog post on the other side of the problem: ease of development. The state of developers experience in Ethereum is far from perfect, and we believe that it can be improved significantly.

While waiting for the blog post, you can already experiment with our development experience. Try out our online IDE, and read the documentation.

NEAR Protocol builds a sharded proof of stake blockchain with a fanatical emphasis on usability. If we intrigued you, please follow us on Twitter, and join our Discord, where we discuss all the topics related to tech, economy, governance and more.

 

https://upscri.be/633436/
ICYMI: Scootering Through Web3 at NEAR APAC’s Vietnam Showcase
COMMUNITY
September 18, 2023
It was an incredible first-ever NEAR APAC, with the NEAR ecosystem scootering through Saigon over the last two days. Vietnam served as the perfect backdrop for NEAR’s inaugural showcase in Asia-Pacific, with community members, B.O.S. builders, and general Web3 enthusiasts coming together in one of the region’s most dynamic countries.

The event was spearheaded by the NEAR Vietnam Hub with support from the NEAR Foundation, exemplifying strong commitment and collaboration between local and global ecosystem stakeholders.  ICYMI, here are some of the biggest sessions, announcements, and events from NEAR APAC 2023.

ICYMI, here are some of the biggest sessions, announcements, and events from NEAR APAC 2023.

Web3’s bright investment outlook in Asia-Pacific
One of the most encouraging and optimistic sessions was moderated by NEAR’s Head of Finance, David Norris, focusing on the current and future outlook of blockchain investment and development in the region. David was joined by Web3 venture veterans Riccardo Pagano from Outlier Ventures and Whiplus Wang of IVC crypto.

The trio dove into the current state of blockchain investment in APAC, and how Web3 might just ascend to becoming one of the most invested sectors in the region from a venture and infrastructure perspective. Ricardo in particular emphasized that he’s seeing a shift in perception from investors, with Web3 going from a niche technology to its own broad-based sector.

“Even though we’re technically in a bear market, investment in Web3 sub-sectors like gaming is still strong,” added Whiplus. “Games like Angry Birds and Fruit Ninja were instrumental in onboarding Web2 users onto the smartphone, for example. That’s why investment into blockchain game publishers is increasing — to find that killer game that onboards billions.”

Whiplus also likened successful blockchain startups to a bowl of Pho, with a blend of technical and business elements being integral to a delicious final dish. The panel also touched on technical nuances like ZK rollups and modular blockchains, emphasizing the need to invest in talent and innovation through initiatives like hackathons.

The session encapsulated a forward-looking perspective on Web3’s trajectory. With the bar for founder participation evidently rising, the panel stressed the importance of education in the space. There was unanimous optimism about Southeast Asia’s digital future as potentially outpacing even established tech hubs like Korea and Japan.

NEAR supports B.O.S. and blockchain builders in APAC
Tons of activity also took place in and around the Builder Stage, with the NEAR Foundation and local blockchain organizations teaming up to educate and assist developers, builders, and job seekers in advancing themselves into Web3. Cameron Dennis, CEO of Banyan, led a panel on the stage informing developers on how to upskill from Web2 to Web3.

Local developer advocates from notable projects like the Graph and Khyber network also participated in sessions, workshops, and panels on the Builder Stage designed to upskill local blockchain professionals. There was something for everyone, from a job fair for Web3 newbies to a Greenhouse area connecting founders and projects to VCs for funding.

Exploring everything from dApp architecture to tokenomics, the Builder Stage action was highlighted by an incredible Hackathon, with participants receiving guidance from experts like Oleg Fomenko, founder of SWEAT. On the final night of the festivities, NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin presented awards to the winners on stage in front of a packed main hall.

Pagoda takes the main stage to talk user adoption and FastAuth
Alex Chiocchi, the CPO of Pagoda, showcased FastAuth during his session titled “Unlocking the Power of B.O.S: Product Update for Founders & Developers.” FastAuth aims to redefine the user experience for developers and founders, addressing the longstanding challenges of both onboarding and retaining new Web3 users.

A primary takeaway was how FastAuth’s next release will minimize gas fees when onboarding, thus removing barriers for end-users. The introduction of multiparty compute (MPC) allows proofs from various organizations to be combined, simplifying processes like email recovery. Chiocchi emphasized the potential for users to migrate effortlessly from Web2 logins, hinting at a seamless integration between the two web generations.

Discussing the nuances of retaining users in Web3, Chiocchi stressed that coin incentives alone aren’t sufficient. The “toothbrush test” was highlighted, illustrating that many apps don’t become daily necessities for users. Trust plays a pivotal role, especially with the rise of scams in the decentralized space. 

Side events and after-parties storm the streets of Saigon
NEAR APAC fully embraced the “work hard, play hard” ethos of Vietnam and Asia-Pacific. Even during the event, there were LED dancers, Manga Cosplay, and several massive DJs and party breaks. Not to mention the NEAR APAC Opening Night party at the Intercontinental Hotel, where Illia officially welcomed attendees and kicked things off in an intimate setting.

And in one of the coolest side events in recent NEAR memory, Dap Dap showcased its platform to B.O.S. enthusiasts at the My House meeting venue nestled in one of Saigon’s many cozily-lit alleyways. Dap Dap is the first commercial B.O.S. product and will act as a gateway to hundreds of chains and protocols for users from a single, user-friendly interface.

B.O.S Beats by DAO Records was the grand finale of NEAR APAC, offering a vibrant blend of hip-hop beats from prominent DJs on the decentralized record label. Held at Indika Saigon — and with pizza supplied by Pizza DAO — attendees enjoyed live performances, refreshments, and networking opportunities with the global and APAC NEAR communities. 

NEAR APAC was an incredible Web3 Bánh Mì, layering an eclectic mix of speakers, insights, and events to create something completely unique. The NEAR Foundation would like to thank every cook in the kitchen, especially local partners like the NEAR Vietnam Hub who made sure that the first ever NEAR APAC had the perfect mix of sweet, sour, and spicy.


Randomness in blockchain protocols
DEVELOPERS
August 9, 2019
We have published today a short paper that describes the randomness beacon that is used in NEAR Protocol. In this accompanying blog post we discuss why randomness is important, why it is hard, and how it is addressed in other protocols.

Many modern blockchain protocols, including NEAR, rely on a source of randomness for selecting participants that carry out certain actions in the protocol. If a malicious actor can influence such source of randomness, they can increase their chances of being selected, and possibly compromise the security of the protocol.

Distributed randomness is also a crucial building block for many distributed applications built on the blockchain. For example, a smart contract that accepts a bet from a participant, and pays out twice the amount with 49% and nothing with 51% assumes that it can get an unbiasable random number. If a malicious actor can influence or predict the random number, they can increase their chance to get the payout in the smart contract, and deplete it.

When we design a distributed randomness algorithm, we want it to have three properties:

It needs to be unbiasable. In other words, no participant shall be able to influence in any way the outcome of the random generator.
It needs to be unpredictable. In other words, no participant shall be able to predict what number will be generated (or reason about any properties of it) before it is generated.
The protocol needs to tolerate some percentage of actors that go offline or try to intentionally stall the protocol.
In this article we will cover the basics of distributed random beacons, discuss why simple approaches do not work. Finally, we will cover the approaches used by DFinity, Ethereum Serenity, and NEAR and discuss their advantages and disadvantages.

RANDAO
RANDAO is a very simple, and thus quite commonly used, approach to randomness. The general idea is that the participants of the network first all privately choose a pseudo-random number, submit a commitment to such privately chosen number, all agree on some set of commitments using some consensus algorithm, then all reveal their chosen numbers, reach a consensus on the revealed numbers, and have the XOR of the revealed numbers to be the output of the protocol.

It is unpredictable, and has the same liveness as the underlying consensus protocol, but is biasable. Specifically, a malicious actor can observe the network once others start to reveal their numbers, and choose to reveal or not to reveal their number based on XOR of the numbers observed so far. This allows a single malicious actor to have one bit of influence on the output, and a malicious actor controlling multiple participants have as many bits of influence as the number of participants they are controlling.

RANDAO + VDFs
To make RANDAO unbiasable, one approach would be to make the output not just XOR, but something that takes more time to execute than the allocated time to reveal the numbers. If the computation of the final output takes longer than the reveal phase, the malicious actor cannot predict the effect of them revealing or not revealing their number, and thus cannot influence the result.

While we want the function that computes the randomness to take a long time for the participants that generate the random number, we want the users of the random number to not have to execute the same expensive function again. Thus, they need to somehow be able to quickly verify that the random number was generated properly without redoing the expensive computation.

Such a function that takes a long time to compute, is fast to verify the computation, and has a unique output for each input is called a verifiable delay function (VDF for short) and it turns out that designing one is extremely complex. There’ve been multiple breakthroughs recently, namely this one and this one that made it possible, and Ethereum presently plans to use RANDAO with VDF as their randomness beacon. Besides the fact that this approach is unpredictable and unbiasable, it has an extra advantage that is has liveness even if only two participants are online (assuming the underlying consensus protocol has liveness with so few participants).

The biggest challenge with this approach is that the VDF needs to be configured in such a way that even a participant with very expensive specialized hardware cannot compute the VDF before the reveal phase ends, and ideally have some meaningful safety margin, say 10x. The figure below shows an attack by a participant that has a specialized ASIC that allows them to run the VDF faster than the time allocated to reveal RANDAO commitments. Such a participant can still compute the final output with and without their share, and choose to reveal or not to reveal based on those outputs:

For the family of VDFs linked above a specialized ASIC can be 100+ times faster than conventional hardware. Thus, if the reveal phase lasts 10 seconds, the VDF computed on such an ASIC must take longer than 100 seconds to have 10x safety margin, and thus the same VDF computed on the conventional hardware needs to take 100 x 100 seconds = ~3 hours.

The way Ethereum Foundation plans to address it is to design its own ASICs and make them publicly available for free. Once this happens, all other protocols can take advantage of the technology, but until then the RANDAO + VDFs approach is not as viable for protocols that cannot invest in designing their own ASICs.

This website accumulates lots of articles, videos and other information on VDFs.

Threshold Signatures
Another approach to randomness, pioneered by Dfinity, is to use so-called threshold BLS signatures. (Fun fact, Dfinity employs Ben Lynn, who is the L in BLS).

BLS signatures is a construction that allows multiple parties to create a single signature on a message, which is often used to save space and bandwidth by not requiring sending around multiple signatures. A common usage for BLS signatures in blockchains is signing blocks in BFT protocols. Say 100 participants create blocks, and a block is considered final if 67 of them sign on it. They can all submit their parts of the BLS signatures, and then use some consensus algorithm to agree on 67 of them and then aggregate them into a single BLS signature. Any 67 parts can be used to create an accumulated signature, however the resulting signature will not be the same depending on what 67 signatures were aggregated.

Turns out that if the private keys that the participants use are generated in a particular fashion, then no matter what 67 (or more, but not less) signatures are aggregated, the resulting multisignature will be the same. This can be used as a source of randomness: the participants first agree on some message that they will sign (it could be an output of RANDAO, or just the hash of the last block, doesn’t really matter for as long as it is different every time and is agreed upon), and create a multisignature on it. Until 67 participants provide their parts, the output is unpredictable, but even before the first part is provided the output is already predetermined and cannot be influenced by any participant.

This approach to randomness is completely unbiasable and unpredictable, and is live for as long as 2/3 of participants are online (though can be configured for any threshold). While ⅓ offline or misbehaving participants can stall the algorithm, it takes at least ⅔ participants to cooperate to influence the output.

There’s a caveat, however. Above, I mentioned that the private keys for this scheme need to be generated in a particular fashion. The procedure for the key generation, called Distributed Key Generation, or DKG for short, is extremely complex and is an area of active research. In one of the recent talks, Dfinity presented a very complex approach which involved zk-SNARKs, a very sophisticated and not time tested cryptographic construction, as one of the steps. Generally, the research on threshold signatures and DKGs in particular is not in a state where it can be easily applied in practice.

RandShare
The NEAR approach is influenced by yet another algorithm called RandShare. RandShare is an unbiasable and unpredictable protocol that can tolerate up to ⅓ of the actors being malicious. It is relatively slow, and the paper linked also describes two ways to speed it up, called RandHound and RandHerd, but unlike RandShare itself RandHound and RandHerd are relatively complex, while we wish the protocol to be extremely simple.

The general problems with RandShare besides the large number of messages exchanged (the participants together will exchange O(n^3) messages), is the fact that while ⅓ is a meaningful threshold for liveness in practice, it is low for the ability to influence the output. There are several reasons for it:

The benefit from influencing the output can significantly outweigh the benefit of stalling randomness.
If a participant controls more than ⅓ of participants in RandShare and uses this to influence the output, it leaves no trace. Thus a malicious actor can do it without ever being revealed. Stalling a consensus is naturally visible.
The situations in which someone controls ⅓ of hashpower / stake are not impossible, and given (1) and (2) above someone having such control is unlikely to attempt to stall the randomness, but can and likely will attempt to influence it.
NEAR Approach
NEAR Approach is described in a paper we recently published. It is unbiasable and unpredictable, and can tolerate up to ⅓ malicious actors for liveness, i.e. if someone controls ⅓ or more participants, they can stall the protocol.

However, unlike RandShare, it tolerates up to ⅔ malicious actors before one can influence the output. This is significantly better threshold for practical applications.

The core idea of the protocol is the following (for simplicity assuming there are exactly 100 participants):

Each participant comes up with their part of the output, splits it into 67 parts, erasure codes it to obtain 100 shares such that any 67 are enough to reconstruct the output, assigns each of the 100 shares to one of the participants and encodes it with the public key of such participant. They then share all the encoded shares.
The participants use some consensus (e.g. Tendermint) to agree on such encoded sets from exactly 67 participants.
Once the consensus is reached, each participant takes the encoded shares in each of the 67 sets published this way that is encoded with their public key, then decodes all such shares and publishes all such decoded shares at once.
Once at least 67 participants did the step (3), all the agreed upon sets can be fully decoded and reconstructed, and the final number can be obtained as an XOR of the initial parts the participants came up with in (1).
The idea why this protocol is unbiasable and unpredictable is similar to that of RandShare and threshold signatures: the final output is decided once the consensus is reached, but is not known to anyone until ⅔ of the participants decrypt shares encrypted with their public key.

Handling all the corner cases and possible malicious behaviors make it slightly more complicated (for example, the participants need to handle the situation when someone in step (1) created an invalid erasure code), but overall the entire protocol is very simple, such that the entire paper that describes it with all the proofs, the corresponding cryptographic primitives and references is just 7 pages long. Make sure to check it out if you want to read a more formal description of the algorithm, or the analysis of its liveness and resistance to influence.

Similar idea that leverages erasure codes is already used in the existing infrastructure of NEAR, in which the block producers in a particular epoch create so-called chunks that contain all the transaction for a particular shard, and distribute erasure-coded versions of such chunks with merkle proofs to other block producers to ensure data availability (see section 3.4 of our sharding paper here).

Outro
This write-up is part of an ongoing effort to create high quality technical content about blockchain protocols and related topics. We also run a video series in which we talk to the founders and core developers of many protocols, we have episodes withEthereum Serenity,Cosmos,Polkadot,Ontology,QuarkChain and many other protocols. All the episodes are conveniently assembled into a playlist here.

If you are interested to learn more about technology behind NEAR Protocol, make sure to check out the above-mentioned sharding paper. NEAR is one of the very few protocols that addresses the state validity and data availability problems in sharding, and the paper contains great overview of sharding in general and its challenges besides presenting our approach.

While scalability is a big concern for blockchains today, a bigger concern is usability. We invest a lot of effort into building the most usable blockchain. We published an overview of the challenges that the blockchain protocols face today with usability, and how they can be addressed here.

Follow us on Twitter and join our Discord chat where we discuss all the topics related to tech, economics, governance and other aspects of building a protocol.
NEAR Community in Focus: Decentralized Community Building on NEAR
COMMUNITY
June 16, 2022
When Matt Aaron, project lead at DeFi and NFT analytics app UniWhales, saw the explosion of interest in the NEAR protocol, he also saw a gap in the market: an app that monitored its blockchain.

The idea was to create a platform that provided real-time data for NEAR wallet activity, just like the platform he set-up to track Ethereum movements. After launching this week, the NEAR tracker bot is still a work in progress—but so far, so good. 

“It was good vibes from the beginning,” says Matt. “As an analytics provider trying to tell the story of what’s going on on all these blockchains, we have to do our best to anticipate additional Layer 1s besides Ethereum where we think there can be meaningful activity our users would like to track.”

“We’re getting all the help we need to get off to a good start,”he adds. “Community members and 4NTS helped connect me to the NEAR ecosystem and get things off to a smooth start.”

Building Web3 products is different from building for Web2. Why? Because Web3 is decentralized, and users have—or at least are supposed to have—ownership. With no centralized authority making all the decisions singlehandedly, it is up to everyone to push things forward. 

The importance of community in the Web3 world 
For a project to be successful, those working on a protocol need to work in harmony and help newcomers. This can only be achieved with a strong community. 

A recurring theme with those building NEAR products is getting a warm welcome from seasoned users of the blockchain, and the support needed to get off to a good start. “The people working on NEAR projects definitely want to help—especially newcomers,” adds Matt.  

Community definitely exists in Web2. People interact on platforms like Reddit and writers can freely add to the world’s most popular websites, like Wikipedia. 

But Web3 projects break down barriers, and users are much closer to the tools they use. People can have more control and say over how a project is built; there is no centralized authority (or, at least, there shouldn’t be—not for long, anyway); members can be rewarded for what they contribute. 

In the Web3 world, communities are much more active and engaged (think DAOs and governance tokens.) And building a big, healthy community is key to a project’s success. The more people who believe in the project and are actively involved, the more likely it is to succeed. 

How NEAR’s blockchain was built for communities 
Jordan Gray, who is part of the TenK DAO and launched the NEAR Misfits NFT collection, says that building a community on NEAR is, for the most part, a smooth process—even for those moving from Web2 to Web3. This is in part due to NEAR’s unique and fool-proof architecture. 

An example? NEAR’s web wallet. Getting started with it is far easier than getting started with other popular Web3 wallets, like MetaMask, says Jordan. Users get a human readable name that must be correctly entered to send money. And there are no lost funds on the NEAR blockchain. This is a feature many new users praise when entering Web3. 

It’s one of the things that attracted Jordan to build upon blockchain in the first place.

“The fact that when new users had their wallets, there was a human readable name—it wasn’t a long hexadecimal code—was just very friendly in that regard,” he says. “It’s really nice and easy for new users coming from the Web2 space, they find it pretty natural and it makes sense to them.” 

Naksh, an NFT marketplace built on NEAR that puts traditional art on the blockchain, has gained traction in India’s art world. Naksh co-founder Sri Lakshmi says that NEAR’s impressive architecture—the wallet in particular—has helped get people using the marketplace, in turn helping to create a buzzing community. 

“I think it’s pretty simple,” she says. “I have taught my artists how to open their wallets and they did not find it that difficult being completely new to this.”

“Since all of the artists in our platform are completely new to the Web3 ecosystem and it was a first time experience for them, creating a wallet itself wasn’t much of a hassle for them,” she adds. “Including some of the deaf and dumb artists.”

NEAR’s community is already bustling, and this makes building new communities easier. With a host of guilds and DAOs already in place to help new projects launch, things go more smoothly. 

“NEAR’s community thrives on cross collaborating and helping each other out,” says Sri. “We have received a lot of help from guilds and other communities on NEAR in getting more people interested in Naksh through the various giveaways, Twitter spaces, video interviews, and articles.”

A shared vision is also what keeps a decentralized community strong. And NEAR’s community shares one thing in common: a focus on building quality products. 

“The kind of people who end up on NEAR are very collaborative and cooperative and want to help others,” adds Jordan. “Quality attracts quality.”  

The strength of community during a bear market 
NEAR Misfits co-creator Alejandro Betancourt, who does business development for the liquid staking app Meta Pool, finds strength in community. He says the NEAR community’s resilience during hard times is evidence of a solid community and project. 

If anything, more people are noticing the NEAR ecosystem. Launched during the last crypto winter in 2020, it’s still going strong during today’s bear market, with more builders jumping aboard daily.  

“There’s definitely a lot in the crypto culture that can be lost because everyone is just too obsessed with price or the herd mentality is too strong, so no one has the time or audacity to look into new things,” says Betancourt. “We launched during the bear market and now it’s a bear market again. The builder ethos and mentality keeps people motivated in the long-term.”

It’s a bit quiet, there is less noise, and it makes it less pump and dumpy,” he adds. “Not everything is shiny, so people get a bit more critical of projects. So when people spend time looking into NEAR technology and the community, it definitely rises to the top in ways that other projects may have been attractive when everything was pumping but are now suddenly a bit more questionable.” 

This is what makes NEAR a solid project. A strong community that keeps building, growing and helping others—even when things in the wider ecosystem have quieted down. 
Illia Polosukhin returns to NEAR Foundation Council to continue the evolution of NEAR ecosystem, Diogo Mónica, Founder of Anchorage, joins as Chairman
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 18, 2023
NEAR Foundation today announced that Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of the NEAR protocol, will be returning to the NEAR Foundation Council (NFC) with immediate effect as part of a rotation of the NFC on the Foundation’s fourth anniversary. As an NFC member, Illia will be better positioned to support the evolution of the NEAR ecosystem, which puts Web3 founders at the core. Key developments will be revealed at this year’s NEARCON in Lisbon, 7-10 November.

As part of this rotation, Diogo Mónica has been appointed Chair of the NFC. Diogo is the Founder and President of Anchorage Digital, the world’s most regulated and proven institutional custodian. As the new Chair, Diogo brings years of experience in corporate leadership and crypto technologies, and a track record of scaling innovative and diverse teams in the digital asset space. Richard Muirhead, Founder, Chairman and Managing Partner at Fabric, will remain as NFC member, a position he has held since its inception; Sheila Warren, CEO of the Crypto Council for Innovation, will remain as advisor to the NFC; and Chris Donovan, CEO of NEAR Foundation, remains as NFC member. 

Mona El Isa, Marieke Flament & Jason Warner have elected to step down from their positions on the NFC.

Diogo Mónica, NFC Chairperson, remarked: “I am delighted to be joining the NEAR Foundation Council as Chair, joining Illia, Chris, Richard and Sheila. I have been following the impressive progress of the NEAR ecosystem for some time. Huge strides have been made over the last few years in building towards an Open Web. I am privileged to play my part in the next evolution of the NEAR ecosystem to continue on the Open Web journey, and excited to do my bit to bring new ideas and direction to support Founders building in the NEAR ecosystem.” 

The next evolution of the NEAR ecosystem will be unveiled at NEARCON, NEAR’s yearly ecosystem flagship event in Lisbon, from 7-10 November. Tickets are on sale at nearcon.org for $99.


A Commitment to Communication
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 8, 2022
The NEAR Foundation has always held transparency as one of its core beliefs. Being open to the community, investors, builders and creators is one of the core tenets of being a Web3 project. But it’s become apparent the Foundation needs to do more. 

The Foundation hears the frustration from the community, and it wants to be more pro-active in when and how it communicates. 

Below is a high level overview of its new communication strategy. More specific details will follow. 

Relaunching town halls 
Townhalls have been a tool the Foundation has used to communicate its strategy and highlight what the ecosystem has been up to in the past. These will be brought back in an updated format monthly that will focus more on showcasing what’s happening internally at the Foundation, and providing opportunities for projects to play a bigger role in decision making through a Q&A format. 

A commitment to regular AMAs 
The leadership team will be hosting fortnightly regular AMAs for the community to ask questions around strategy and future direction. The Foundation will also host specific AMAs around key parts of the Foundation to allow the community to ask questions to specific members of the team. 

These AMAs will initially be focused around: 

Marketing & Events
Community
BD/Funding
Education
Legal
Always on signposting 
The Foundation has created lots of resources to help the community navigate resources and where to go for help. However, the Foundation is aware these could be sign-posted better. As such, it will shift to an always-on approach to better highlight where people can find the information they need, or speak to someone from the Foundation. 

This is just the beginning of this strategy and Foundation will publish more updates on this approach in the coming weeks.


Los Angeles Football Club and Dropt Rewrite Fan Experience Playbook Utilizing NEAR Protocol
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 19, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership between Los Angeles Football Club (LAFC) and Dropt — a fan engagement platform built on the NEAR Protocol — supporting the club’s vision to rewrite the playbook on the fan experience. The collaboration kicks off with LAFC Gold — a Loyalty Club designed to recognize Los Angeles FC’s most devoted fans with a wide range of unprecedented benefits.

Let’s explore what LAFC’s new fan engagement product, LAFC Gold, looks like and what it means for an open web. 

Elevating the football fan experience with LAFC Gold benefits
In the sports worlds, fans love to be part of the action, and not just at the arena. Sports teams understand that fans like to feel that they are being seen, heard, and valued for their significant contributions to the organization and its athletes. And in the world of football (“soccer” to Americans), fanbases are truly global, making it important that sports franchises meet their fans wherever they are.
With its new Loyalty Club, LAFC is acknowledging their fans and bringing them new benefits and experiences, utilizing Dropt’s digital engagement platform and NEAR technology.

“LAFC Gold promises to make LAFC fans and supporters feel seen, heard, and valued wherever they are in the world,”  said LAFC Co-President & CBO Larry Freedman. “Watching a match at BMO Stadium is one of the best sports experiences anyone can have. With LAFC Gold, we now have a way to connect, recognize, and reward anyone who supports the Black & Gold.”

LAFC Gold delivers on its promise with exclusive experiences 
LAFC Gold kicked off with a ticket giveaway to the historic matchup between LAFC and Inter Miami, including the experience of holding the American Flag during the National Anthem before the match. And with the  2022 World Cup, 4-time Champions League, and 7-time Ballon d’Or winner Lionel Messi on the pitch for Inter Miami, this was a match not to be missed. 

For the last three home matches of the season, including the momentous El Tráfico against LA Galaxy this past weekend, LAFC Gold has given away 4 premium tickets with pre-match field access to winning LAFC Gold Members. Unlocking your chance to win experiences and benefits like these for Real Salt Lake (10/1) and Minnesota United FC (10/4) is as easy as signing up and securing your LAFC Gold Membership.

With Dropt’s digital fan engagement platform, LAFC Gold will be accessible and easy for fans to join. The kickoff is just the first of what will be a dynamic program designed to create new ways for fans to engage with LAFC and its club partners. And by utilizing the NEAR Protocol, LAFC will ensure that the team will remain at the forefront of the open web’s cutting-edge technology by allowing LAFC to verify and track every transaction in a secure environment.

To experience LAFC Gold, visit gold.lafc.com and sign up for an Entry, Local, Global, or Youth Membership. 

LAFC Season Ticket Members are automatically enrolled in the program. 


Soon… | NEAR Update: June 14, 2019
COMMUNITY
June 14, 2019
We’re extremely close to getting our new consensus, Nightshade, deployed to TestNet! Over the last two weeks we’ve been merging big blocks of it into master branches repos that will be affected. Bear with us during the transition, there will be breaking changes. You can now send money in the wallet, as well as see and manage authorized applications. In addition, you can deploy contracts in Rust to our TestNet. Co-founder Illia has been traveling through China for talks and demos with the Web3 Foundation.

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS

We want everybody to be able to take part in building the decentralized web with us. So we’re sponsoring a Twitter pitch competition for the next 6 days to give away a free ticket to DWeb Camp. Check out the tweet above for how to enter.
Illia is in China! He has been presenting alongside Polkadot, Chainsafe, Edgeware and others in Shenzhen, Hangzhou, Shanghai and Beijing about NEAR, usability and sharding.

Great time with Illia from Near Protocol. pic.twitter.com/UNv5mzDj1l

— Kaikai Yang (@KKYohlala) June 14, 2019

We’ve partnered with the Web3 Foundation to host regular Twitter chats on topics relevant to the crypto community. Our first chat was on usability; the second on blockchain gaming. Tweet at us (@NEARProtocol) if you’d like to suggest a topic!
Upcoming events:

Alex is giving a talk on usability and scalability at IBM’s Blockchain Developer Summit on June 21 at Galvanize, San Francisco. Tickets available here.
Max is giving a talk on using Rust to build smart contracts at RustLab in Florence, Italy on June 29. Tickets available here.
Jess, Peter and Vlad will be running a Crypto-Prototyping Series at DWeb Camp, south of San Francisco (July 18-21). It will be a multi-day immersive experience for the decentralized web community run by the Internet Archive. Tickets available here.
Alex will be talking at the Web3 Summit in Berlin (August 21-25). Tickets available here.
WRITING AND CONTENT
We’re happy to release the two videos from the blockchain gaming panel and the DeFi panel we recorded in New York. We’ve also got a new whiteboard session with Monica from Kadena, and a new series we’re launching called Fireside Chats. These are going to cover war stories from blockchain founders, starting with blockchain gaming. Lastly, we released another article on avalanche. Links below!

Videos

Future of DeFi — Panel | NY Blockchain Week
Blockchain Blockchain Gaming in 2019 — Panel | NY Blockchain Week
Fireside Chat with Devin Finzer | NY Blockchain Week
Whiteboard Series Ep 19 with Monica Quaintance from Kadena
Whiteboard Series Ep 20 with John Pacific from NuCypher
We Sponsored Nueva Hacks. Here’s the video.
Writing

Avalanche vs The new IOTA consensus algorithm, with a touch of Spacemesh
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
We’ve had 58 PRs across 9 repos and 10 authors in the last two weeks. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, and near-wallet. Don’t forget, it’s all open source.

Overall, a lot of progress in the app layer and merged Nightshade into master.

Application Layer

Wallet
Authorized apps management
Various UI fixes
Display proper username in profile
Send money fixes
Account recovery fixes
Fix login redirect (when recovering account / setting up new)
Nearlib
Setup CI for Nightshade integration
Refactored to TypeScript with relevant updates for Nightshade and cleaner and extensible API.
Support adding keys to accounts
AssemblyScript/bindings
Merge with latest upstream
AssemblyScript JSON
Update to work with latest upstream
Use as-pect for tests
Studio
Wait properly for compiler loading
Basic end-to-end tests for studio workflow (running on CI)
Rust Smart Contracts
We now support smart contracts written in Rust
Near CLI
Command syntax improvements
Attach tokens to calls
Send tokens
View account
Blockchain

Added self-call for contract-based account.
Major progress on separating large logical blocks into chunks for the new Nightshade sharding design (commits 1 and 2). Still WIP.
Switched to u128 for balances / stakes across the board.
Implemented validator rotation and staking transaction
Restored all integration tests
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends ?

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Foundation Announces Policy Principles
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 28, 2023
It’s no surprise that the Web3 industry presents many unique challenges for lawmakers and regulators globally. Decentralised, permissionless technology is, in many ways, at odds with much of current law and regulation that assumes centralised, intermediated and gatekept systems. Adding to this inherent complexity, Web3 technology is borderless by nature, spanning countless jurisdictions and legal/regulatory frameworks.

We believe that fair, proportionate and clear regulation can benefit our industry and is necessary if we want to see genuine global growth and adoption of Web3 technology. We also believe that the policy outcomes advanced by most regulators globally (protecting investors, maintaining market integrity and promoting financial stability) are reasonable and capable of being achieved in the Web3 context with the right approach (i.e. regulatory equivalence is possible).

Indeed, many of Web3’s core features (including decentralisation, disintermediation, transparency and immutability) make it uniquely suited to effectively achieving these policy outcomes. But, to achieve these outcomes, regulation must be fair and proportionate. If regulation isn’t fair and proportionate — if it doesn’t consider the unique features and associated challenges inherent to Web3 technology — then it can stifle innovation and undermine the very policy goals lawmakers and regulators are trying to advance1. 

CURRENT STATE OF PLAY

Currently, there is no common or consistent approach to Web3 regulation. Laws and regulations that do exist vary widely between jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions, including Switzerland, the European Union (EU), the United Kingdom (UK), Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong, we are seeing progress and, critically, a recognition that, at least in some respects, our industry does require a different approach. In the EU, for example, the Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCA) (the text of which was agreed upon late last year and is anticipated to come into force in late 2024) aims to create a harmonised, comprehensive legal framework across all EU member states for the regulation of crypto assets and related activities2 (although other policy developments are troubling3). Switzerland was one of the first jurisdictions to implement an effective regulatory framework for digital assets back in 20184 and has since been home to a vibrant Web3 ecosystem. The UK has also signaled its intent to embrace our industry, recently launching a significant consultation to seek views on how the UK could best regulate the Web3 industry5, which followed an excellent Law Commission of England and Wales (Law Commission) paper on personal property law and digital assets (as well as a consultation on decentralised autonomous organisations (DAOs) which recently closed6).

However, in other jurisdictions, most notably the US, there has been an increasing, and in many cases, overt hostility towards our industry. Amongst other things, a recent White House report on crypto is scathing7, a Treasury Department analysis of decentralised finance (DeFi) (somewhat more balanced than the White House report) contains some fundamental technical and policy misunderstandings8, banking access for Web3 projects has been compromised in a seemingly coordinated and deliberate manner9, prominent lawmakers talk of creating an ‘anti-crypto army,’10 and aggressive legislation proposals are receiving increased support. Regulators continue to rely on outdated laws and regulations that aren’t fit for purpose without providing any clarity or guidance that the industry desperately needs, let alone a viable route to registration11. Amidst this complex and unclear regulatory background, regulators and the industry alike struggle with definitive asset classification and the industry faces a wave of enforcement actions12. 

This approach is unquestionably damaging the Web3 industry in the US (and beyond), driving many projects out of the jurisdiction. It is not a fair or proportionate regulatory approach, it is regulation by enforcement.

WHERE DOES THIS LEAVE THE INDUSTRY?

There is much work to do, particularly in the US. As an industry, we need to recognise that these regulatory challenges and the apparent growing hostility can potentially harm us all. However, what is unfolding now across our industry in the US could become a seminal and net positive moment if we can unite and mobilise effectively.

The NEAR Foundation’s primary focus is to support the ongoing growth and development of the NEAR protocol and its associated ecosystem, but it also has a more general mandate to accelerate the adoption of open technologies at a global scale. The Foundation, therefore, has a responsibility to advocate for reasonable, proportionate and effective approaches to regulating our industry. 

Part I of this series sets out the NEAR Foundation’s core policy priorities for the next 12 months and beyond to increase awareness of the key issues, and to show what guides the NEAR Foundation as we advocate on behalf of the NEAR ecosystem and the wider industry. These policy priorities are: (1) protect developers and open source software; (2) protect privacy; (3) promote autonomy; (4) protect validators; (5) promote clarity, collaboration and good faith engagement.

In Part II of this series, to follow shortly, we set out policy initiatives to help drive these priorities forwards.

NEAR FOUNDATION POLICY PRIORITIES

PROTECT DEVELOPERS AND OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE
Developers are the lifeblood of our industry, responsible for creating, maintaining, and innovating the infrastructure on which Web3 operates. To foster innovation and growth, it is essential to safeguard developers from onerous regulation and ensure that publishing open source code remains free and open. Developers should be able to explore, experiment, and create without unnecessary constraints, burdensome obligations or fear of liability (including, for example, designation as fiduciaries13 or ‘Financial Institutions’14). 

Open source code is a powerful tool that enables transparency, collaboration, and rapid innovation,  allowing developers to share, modify, and build upon existing work while enhancing the security of the code. By defending the right to publish open source code, we also support the principles of freedom of expression and the free flow of information. This not only benefits the Web3 community but also fosters a culture of open collaboration across the entire technology industry and encourages its continued development.

PROTECT PRIVACY
Privacy is a fundamental human right and a cornerstone of the Web3 vision to create a more secure, user-centric and user-empowered web. However, as a neutral and highly transparent technology, blockchain (and other Web3 technology) is equally capable of being misused for warrantless mass surveillance and censorship if appropriate privacy safeguards aren’t in place. We are already seeing various attempts to erode privacy in Web3 that could have far-reaching consequences well beyond our industry15.

Web3 technology has demonstrated that maintaining privacy can be compatible with other important policy outcomes including, for example, the prevention of crime. Zero-knowledge proof (and other) innovations are already capable of implementing (for example) KYC/AML and sanctions checks without exposing sensitive personal data16.

Privacy should be staunchly defended to protect individuals from unwarranted surveillance, invasive data collection, censorship and malicious actors. Policymakers should support these outcomes when it comes to Web3 technology, as they have done in Web2 with data protection legislation such as GDPR and DPA. By championing privacy, we want to ensure that Web3 technology continues to respect users and empower them to own and control their data. 

PROMOTE AUTONOMY
Ensuring individuals can use self-hosted products and services free of heavy restrictions or obligations is critical to user empowerment. Through self-hosting, users can fully control their assets and data, enhance their privacy, and reduce censorship risks and reliance on centralised intermediaries and service providers (and it is often within such centralised intermediaries that risk is most highly concentrated17). Self-hosting is also a foundational component of secure, resilient, diverse and competitive ecosystems since it minimises centralised points of failure and dangerous concentrations of power18 and supports decentralised infrastructure and governance systems19. But, we are already seeing proposals that would harm autonomy by significantly constraining the development and use of self-hosted products and services20.

Users should be able to seamlessly embrace self-hosting as a viable and attractive alternative to centralised service offerings and also safely participate in decentralised autonomous governance systems (including DAOs) without fear of liability or being subjected to burdensome obligations. Many in the industry, including those working on NEAR protocol’s transition to the Blockchain Operating System21, are pioneering technological innovations to make this possible. Policymakers should also enable these outcomes. 

PROTECT VALIDATORS
Validators are the backbone of decentralised networks, ensuring those networks can function effectively by validating transactions, maintaining transaction accuracy and ensuring adherence to consensus rules. In performing this essential function, validators should not be subject to burdensome obligations or significant liability risks22.Accordingly, a balance should be struck between the need for regulatory clarity, network security and ease of validator participation.

A good starting point could be the creation of a light-touch, standardised public disclosure regime whereby validators would be required to disclose relevant information about their operations. This relevant information could include (amongst other things) relevant digital asset holdings, ownership of/the extent of their node operations, fee structure, affiliations with other significant ecosystem participants, hardware and software infrastructure, security measures, and past performance records. De minimis thresholds could be implemented so that the disclosure requirements would apply only to those validators operating at scale and in connection with significant networks. This approach could also provide much-needed clarity by confirming the nature and extent of participating validator obligations and liability in the context of network failures, security breaches or other adverse events, providing an incentive for participation in the regime.

This type of disclosure-based approach would reduce information asymmetry, and therefore promote investor protection and help to maintain market integrity. It also has other advantages, including: (1) focusing on the types of activities that are being undertaken rather than the nature or classification of the underlying asset (the latter approach can create enormous complexity, as evidenced by the current situation in the US); and (b) being relatively flexible and so capable of application to other critical network participants including, for example, core development teams who are building/maintaining certain types of Web3 projects/infrastructure23.

By establishing clear guidelines and legal safeguards for validators (and other network participants), policymakers can provide a conducive environment for validators to operate without fear of significant legal consequences. This will promote the resilience, security and growth of decentralized networks and help to preserve critical benefits of Web3 – decentralisation and disintermediation.

PROMOTE CLARITY, COLLABORATION AND GOOD FAITH ENGAGEMENT
The industry desperately needs clarity from lawmakers and regulators. Effective policy debate requires willingness from both policymakers, and the industry to discuss issues in good faith24, as well as a recognition that Web3 presents a unique and unprecedented policy challenge and therefore an openness to exploring new approaches.

We should also recognise that as developers, users, and other proponents of Web3 technology, we are each representatives of and advocates for our industry. Our conduct matters, and we should all strive to act with integrity and set a good example to show policymakers what our industry is capable of, and the unique value it can generate25. To do this effectively, collaboration across the industry is essential. 

CLOSING THOUGHTS

Productive dialogue between the industry and regulators will hopefully lead towards further legal and regulatory clarity in Web3, which will have a positive effect on: (1) developers, by offering them a framework in which to operate, aware of their obligations and protected from the unreasonable application of unsuitable laws and regulations; and (2) users, by providing a safe environment in which to try new products and services and explore a new technological frontier where autonomy, transparency and privacy are paramount.  

We believe that the light-touch disclosure based approaches (like the high-level proposal referenced above), as well as safe harbour implementations26 (which provide projects with viable, conditioned routes to registration/compliance – and which could be integrated into a wider disclosure based regime), sandboxes (to explore specific activities like digital asset issuance, updated AML/KYC processes etc.) and model law proposals27 (amongst other approaches), show significant promise and warrant further work and discussion28. 

We will explore some of these potential routes forwards in more detail in Part II of this series. 

In the meantime, we believe that regulatory clarity and consensus are essential for the meaningful global adoption of Web3 technology. Policymakers’ approach to Web3 will continue to evolve, and on-going education efforts and good faith discussions will be key to moving the conversation in a positive direction. We welcome the opportunity to engage with other industry participants, as well as lawmakers and regulators globally, to develop a fair and proportionate approach in support of these policy priorities. 

Disclaimer: Nothing in this article/post should be construed as legal, tax or investment advice. This post might not reflect all current updates to applicable laws, regulations or guidance. The authors disclaim any obligation to update this post and reserve the right to make any changes to this post without notice. In all cases, persons should conduct their own investigation and analysis of the information in this post. Where this post contains links to other sites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for information only and should not be interpreted as approval by us of those linked websites (or any information obtained from them) that the authors of this post do not control.

Footnotes:

1. See, e.g., Running on Empty: A Proposal to Fill the Gap Between Regulation and Decentralization, Hester M. Peirce, speech on February 6, 2020 (available here), where Peirce discusses the current challenges in the US with the lack of legal clarity around decentralization and the outdated application of the Howey Test to crypto assets. See also, e.g., The SEC, Digital Assets and Game Theory, Yuliya Guseva, 46 J. Corp.. L. 629-679 (2021)(available here), which suggests that the SEC’s regulation via enforcement actions approach has broken the ‘fabric of cooperation’ between industry participants and the SEC and is therefore leading to bad outcomes for all market participants. See further testimony before the US House Financial Services Subcommittee on Digital Assets, Financial Technology, and Inclusion, hearing entitled Coincidence or Coordinated? The Administrator’s Attack on the Digital Asset Ecosystem, Dr. Tonya M. Evans, March 9, 2023 (available here), where Evans emphasizes the difficulty in innovating and building in Web3 given the present uncertain regulatory climate in the US.

2. MiCA will primarily regulate centralised intermediaries/crypto-asset service providers in a relatively proportionate manner, enabling so-called ‘passporting’ across all member states and largely carving out decentralised initiatives, demonstrating a clear recognition by EU lawmakers and regulators of the current and future importance of our industry. MiCA isn’t perfect – the provisions governing stablecoins are unwieldy and challenging, the bloc’s intended approach to decentralised initiatives remains largely unknown and some other legislative developments are troubling (see footnote 3) – however, it represents a meaningful launching-off point for engagement and future iteration, and will provide much-needed clarity and consistency across the world’s largest single market.

3. See, e.g., Proposal for a Regulation on Information Accompanying transfers of funds and Certain Crypto-Assets, Piotr Bąkowski, European Parliamentary Research Service, 20 July 2021 (available here), which proposes to expand travel rule obligations to all crypto-asset service providers (CASPS) and require them to collect identifying data in respect of all transactions with no minimum transaction threshold (while the TradFi equivalent rule has a €1k minimum transaction threshold). See also, e.g., Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on harmonised rules on fair access to and use of data (Data Act), European Commission, 23 February 2022 (available here), which proposes mandating that certain smart contracts be ‘reversible’ and/or contain a so-called ‘kill switch’ in the ‘Internet of Things’ (IOT) context. See also, e.g., “Decentralised” or “disintermediated” finance: what regulatory response?, April 2023, the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution (ACPR) (available here), which proposes, in effect, to ‘re-intermediate’ DeFi (amongst other things) by requiring DeFi projects to incorporate in the EU, and to classify DeFi front-ends as regulated intermediaries with data collection and monitoring obligations.

4.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) published ‘ICO Guidelines’ in February 2018 (available here), which set out a relatively straightforward digital asset classification framework with the aim of providing clarity to market participants. 

5.  The consultation indicates an approach inspired partly by MiCA — i.e. regulate centralised intermediaries based on their activities, but recognise that decentralised initiatives will require a different approach — and asks the industry to provide views and feedback to inform the UK Government’s approach. This degree of engagement with industry is extremely encouraging. The NEAR Foundation will be submitting a consultation response and we would encourage all industry stakeholders to do the same. The consultation paper is available here.  

6.  The Law Commission’s consultation paper dealing with law reform proposals in the context of digital assets and personal property rights is available here, and the Law Commission’s consultation paper on DAOs can be found here.

7.  The Annual Report of the Council of Economic Advisors, 20 March 2023 (available here), p. 238. (“[C]rypto assets to date do not appear to offer investments with any fundamental value, nor do they act as an effective alternative to fiat money, improve financial inclusion, or make payments more efficient; instead, their innovation has been mostly about creating artificial scarcity in order to support crypto assets’ prices—and many of them have no fundamental value.”) 

8.  See, e.g., Coin Centre’s excellent commentary on the Treasury DeFi risk assessment. Peter Van Valkenburgh, Treasury’s new DeFi risk assessment relies on ill-fitting frameworks and makes potentially unconstitutional recommendations, 7 April 2023 (available here).

9.  See, e.g., Operation Choke Point 2.0: The Federal Bank Regulators Come for Crypto, Cooper & Kirk LLP (available here).

10.  See, e.g., Elizabeth Warren is building an anti-crypto army. Some conservatives are on board, Zachary Warmbrodt, Politico, 14 February 2023 (available here).

11.  See, e.g., Due to SEC Inaction, Registration is Not a Viable Path for Crypto Projects, Rodrigo Seira, Justin Slaughter, Katie Biber, Paradigm (available here), which notes that despite SEC Chair Genlser repeatedly telling projects to ‘come in and register’, current US securities laws are incompatible with various features of Web3, making registration a practical impossibility for Web3 projects.

12.  Only this week, the SEC commenced an enforcement action against Bittrex, alleging, among other things that the Bittrex Platform “merged three functions that are typically separated in traditional securities markets—those of broker-dealers, exchanges, and clearing agencies—despite the fact that Bittrex has never registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer, national securities exchange, or clearing agency,” and arguing that five tokens, including Algorand and DASH, are securities. Securities and Exchange Commission v Bittrex Inc., (WD Wash) (Complaint), No 2:23 cv 00580. See also e.g., SEC Cryptocurrency Enforcement Update, Cornerstone Research 2022 (available here), according to which, in 2022 alone the SEC brought 30 crypto-related enforcement actions against Web3 projects. In spite of the numerous enforcement actions, the SEC has still not provided any material guidance to the industry to foster regulatory compliance. For a longer list of SEC crypto asset enforcement actions, please refer to the SEC’s summary available here. 

13.  See, e.g. Tulip Trading Ltd v Van der Laan and Ors [2023] EWCA Civ 83, a case currently in the High Court of England & Wales (following the successful appeal of a High Court order for summary judgment which was overturned by the Court of Appeal) that considers whether certain core developers of various Bitcoin networks owe network users either a fiduciary duty and/or a tortious duty of care, and therefore is one of the most important cases to date in the context of developer duties/liability. 

14.  See e.g., 31 U.S.C. § 5312(a)(2) (defining a financial institution as an entity encompassing various organizations and businesses, including but not limited to banks, credit unions, investment companies, broker-dealers, insurance companies, currency exchanges, and money transmitters, or deemed to engage in similar activities). Being classified as a ‘Financial Institution’ from a US law perspective subjects a person to (amongst other things) various onerous information collection and reporting duties, including a duty to: (1) identify and record personal information of any person who uses the relevant software/service; (2) develop anti-money laundering (AML) programmes that can block persons from using the relevant software/service where there are suspicions of illegal activity; and (3) file reports about users of the relevant software/service to the government.

15.  See, e.g., the Digital Asset Anti-Money Laundering Act proposed in December last year in the US by Senators Warren and Marshall (the “Warren/Marshall Act”),  which would significantly erode the privacy of anyone using or supporting public blockchain infrastructure; See also, e.g., Coin Centre’s post here for further analysis. See further, e.g., the US Infrastructure Bill which contains two particularly problematic revisions to the US Tax Code: (1) widening the definition of ‘broker’ so that it captures non-custodial service providers and transfers involving self-hosted wallets; and (2) an adjustment to include digital assets within provision §6050I, with the result that businesses would need to collect information about counterparties whenever they receive digital assets worth more than $10,000 in value. See also footnote 3 re ACPR’s proposals to treat DeFi front-ends as intermediaries which would require information collection and reporting with respect to users.

16.   Zero-Knowledge (ZK) proofs are a cryptographic technique that enable one party to prove to another party that they have knowledge of a certain piece of information, without revealing the underlying information itself. ZK proofs can enhance privacy and efficiency in KYC and AML compliance, as they can enable individuals to prove that they have already completed KYC with a trusted provider without disclosing their personal data to other parties. ZK proofs can also allow individuals to prove that they are not on any sanctions or watch lists without revealing their identity or location. ZK proofs can reduce the risk of identity theft, data breaches, and fraud, as well as lower the operational costs and complexity of KYC and AML processes. See, e.g., zkKYC – A solution concept for KYC without knowing your customer, leveraging self-sovereign identity and zero-knowledge proofs, Pieter Pauels, Smart Contract Research Forum, July 2021 (available here). 

17.  For example, both FTX and Alameda were (extremely) centralised digital asset intermediaries, performing functions and offering services to customers in a bundled manner, and it is critical to recognise that: (1) the market contagion following the collapse of FTX/Alameda was significantly amplified precisely because of the centralised, opaque nature of the institutions (as well as alleged criminal behaviour); and (2) the contagion across decentralised ecosystems, which are open,  transparent, and disintermediated by design, was notably less severe precisely because of these unique Web3 features. In relation to (2) see, e.g., Report of the Cotnell SC Johnson College of Business, 2022 Cornell Roundtable Forum on Digital Assets, (available here).

18.  From a policy perspective, a key element of promoting autonomy involves the prevention of concentrations of power amongst a small number of centralised service providers/market actors that bundle various services together, something that has been a feature of the industry to date. See, e.g., Policy Paper Series (Part 1): Reframing How We Look at a Crypto Legislative Solution, Delphi Digital & LeXPunK, 17 March 2023 (available here)), which proposes a regulatory framework for public permissionless blockchain networks focussing on the regulation of systemically important vertically-integrated centralised actors.

19.  The NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) is a community grassroots initiative in the NEAR ecosystem that is working to support the ongoing development of sustainable governance infrastructure and the ecosystem’s continuing decentralisation. The NEAR Foundation supported the NDC’s recent launch of a decentralised treasury that represents an important step in the NEAR ecosystem’s ongoing decentralisation. See, e.g., NEAR Digital Collective Legal Framework, 21 March 2023 (available here).  

20. The Warren/Marshall Act would classify all providers of self-hosted wallets (and effectively anyone else who maintains public blockchain infrastructure) as ‘Financial Institutions’, subjecting them to a host of onerous obligations that are in practice impossible to comply with, and would significantly constrain the development and use of self-hosted products and services. See footnote 14 for more detail on the onerous obligations of ‘Financial Institutions’ from a US perspective. See also footnote 3 re ACPR’s proposals to treat DeFi font-ends as intermediaries which would require information collection and reporting with respect to users.

21. The Blockchain Operating System (BOS) serves as a single platform that developers can build into and users can interact on, including by browsing and discovering Web3 products such as crypto exchanges, non-fungible token (NFT) galleries and social networks. The BOS will be compatible with all blockchains (currently supporting NEAR protocol and Ethereum Virtual Machine chains), with NEAR protocol acting as the common entry point. The BOS offers a decentralized and composable and front end framework for building, launching, and using dApps, while leveraging common user experience frameworks such as profiles, notifications, and searching.For more information on the BOS, see, e.g., Near Protocol Announces the Blockchain Operating System, NEAR Foundation, 2 March 2023 (available here); Near Protocol Starts ‘Blockchain Operating System’ to Focus on User Experience, Lyllah Ledesma, Coindesk, 2 March 2023 (available here).

22. For example, Rule 3b-16(a)(2), Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78a-78qq (2012). defines an exchange as an organization that (1) brings together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers; and (2) uses established, non-discretionary methods under which such orders interact with each other, and the buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of the trade. The SEC’s proposed amendment to Rule 3b-16(a)(2) replaces the phrase “uses established, non-discretionary methods,” with “makes available established, non-discretionary methods,” which could inadvertently capture “developers working with all manners or protocols, front end systems, and smart contracts,” along with persons who “operate…’validators’ on the underlying blockchain where the AMM is stored”. See Reg-X-Proposal-An-Expempt-Offering-Framework-for-Token-Issuances, LeXpunK-Army, 7 March 2023 (available here). 

23.  The “Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0” framework proposed by SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce includes measures applying to validators, including “information, detailing…the process for validating transactions.” See Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0, Commissioner, Hester M. Peirce, 13 April 2021 (available here); See also, e.g., Safe Harbor X, LeXpunK-Army, 7 March 2023 (available here) (proposing a rule that would provide an exemption for the distribution of autonomous cryptotokens to users and builders of autonomous software systems, based on the Token Safe Harbor Proposal 2.0, but with some modifications and additions, such as requiring semi-annual updates, an exit report, guidance on decentralization criteria, and clarifying the definition and scope of autonomous cryptotokens and autonomous cryptosystems). These safe harbor proposals would operate to effectively provide projects with conditioned routes to compliance, based on each project meeting various requirements (including disclosures, smart contract audits, and degree of decentralisation).

24.  In any principles-based regulatory system, regulators are generally afforded wide discretion to interpret and enforce regulations in line with desired policy outcomes. Where that discretion is misused or otherwise not exercised in good faith, those systems break down with the result that innovation is stifled and policy goals are undermined.

25.  See, e.g., Community Policy Initiative No. 1, Polygon Labs, 11 April 2023 (available here). 

26.  See footnote 23 for more information on potential safe harbor implementations in the US.

27.  Model law proposals are draft laws or regulations that are proposed by regulators or other authorities to address specific issues or challenges in a given domain. Model law consultations and proposals can serve as guidance or inspiration for other jurisdictions that are considering similar reforms or initiatives. See, e.g., Model Law For Decentralized Autonomous Organizations, Constance Choi, Primavera De Filippi, Rick Dudley, Silke Not Elrifia, Coalition of Automated Legal Applications, 2021 (available here); Proposal for a Regulation on Markets in Crypto-assets, European Commission, September 2020 (available here) (proposing a regulation that would establish a comprehensive framework for crypto-assets in the European Union, which eventually led to MiCA); Future financial services regulatory regime for cryptoassets: Consultation and call for evidence, UK Treasury, February 2023 (available here) (proposing a new regulatory regime for cryptoassets in the UK).

28.  See, e.g.,Brief of LexpunK as Amicus Curiae Regarding Plainitff’s Motion for Alternative Service, LeXpunK, CFTC v. Ooki DAO et al., No. 3:22-cv-05416-WHO (N.D. Cal. Oct. 17, 2022) (available here) (challenging the CFTC’s motion for alternative service against token holders of Ooki DAO, a decentralized crypto platform, on the basis that DAOs are not legal entities or persons, but rather collections of smart contracts that run autonomously on a blockchain without any central authority or control). See also, e.g., Brief of Coinbase Global Inc. as Amicus Curiae in Support of Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss, Coinbase Global Inc., SEC v. Ripple Labs Inc. et al., No. 1:20-cv-10832-AT-SN (S.D.N.Y. Oct. 31, 2022) (available here) (arguing that the SEC failed to provide fair notice to market participants that XRP was considered a security); See also, e.g., Brief of Blockchain Association as Amicus Curiae in Support of Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss, Blockchain Association, SEC v. Wahi et al., No. 2:22-cv-02101-RSL (W.D. Wash. Feb. 13, 2023) (available here) (expressing support for the Defendants’ argument for dismissal and claiming that the SEC exceeded its authority by declaring certain tokens to be securities without prior findings and attempting to punish absent third parties who had no meaningful opportunity to defend themselves); See also, e.g.,Brief of Blockchain Association and DeFi Education Fund as Amici Curiae in Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Partial Summary Judgment, Blockchain Association & DeFi Education Fund, Van Loon v. Dep’t of the Treasury, No. 1:23-cv-00312-RP (W.D. Tex. April 12, 2023) (available here) (challenging OFAC’s sanctions on Tornado Cash, a privacy-protecting software protocol on Ethereum, as being based on a misunderstanding of blockchain technology and violating the Administrative Procedure Act). 
Nightshade | NEAR Update July 1, 2019
COMMUNITY
July 1, 2019
We deployed a test version of Nightshade, our new consensus model, and have been working to integrate it into the rest of our codebase.

This all happened while Illia was behind the Great Firewall, managing to both contribute code and give presentations to Chinese audiences on NEAR in collaboration with the Web3 foundation. On the ecosystem side, we have been heads down preparing some future programs to be announced soon.

We announced the winner of our DWeb Camp ticket giveaway, who won with an idea for a decentralized VPN (Well done Grace!).


COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
We are gearing up for another hackathon, and some other (secret!) programs for those who want to get more involved with NEAR, so stay tuned for updates in the coming weeks.

Alex gave a talk on usability and scalability at IBM’s Blockchain Developer Summit [https://blockchain-developer-summit.splashthat.com/]
By the time this goes out, Max will have given a talk on using Rust to build smart contracts at RustLab in Florence, Italy
Illia presented a workshop to the Denver blockchain community 
Illia is back from China, and will be back in China again presenting at a Proof of Stake conference on July 10th 
WRITING AND CONTENT
We had a relatively light couple of weeks publishing content. You can check out these new whiteboard series videos and a tour of the economics model we’re implementing.

Augur whiteboard:https://youtu.be/kpW08CiSK9g
NEAR economics design:https://youtu.be/65CKc39lNTw
FOAM whiteboard:https://youtu.be/5L-XbpC4kY0
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS

We’ve had 39 PRs across 10 repos and 10 authors in the last two weeks. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, and near-wallet. Don’t forget, it’s all open source.

Recently streamlined our release process
App Layer
Updates across all libraries for Nightshade merge
Added advanced access keys in core
near-shell
Updated syntax
Wallet
Bug fixes and UI improvements
Blockchain
First version of staking is complete and currently being tested
Deployed test version Nightshade, our new model consensus
Chunks for sharding are underway in a ~1800 line PR
Proper validators tracking and rotation between epochs (commit).
Shard chunks proper signature and merkle proofs validation (commit)
Tests for cross-shard transactions (commit)
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends ?

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Weekly On Chain Data Report: December 23
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 23, 2022
Transparency continues to be a core focus of the NEAR Fondation, so every week it will publish data to assess the health of the ecosystem. This is to aid the NEAR community in understanding the current state of NEAR across key metrics. The Weekly On Chain Data Report will also appear at the top of quarterly reports as well as monthly funding reports.

Read the Quarterly Transparency Reports. 

Read the Q3 Transparency Report 

Read Last week’s  On-Chain Data Report.

The Importance of Transparency
The NEAR Foundation has been committed to transparency since inception. It values openness to all stakeholders, including investors, builders, and creators. The Foundation’s focus on openness to the entire community will always be a core tenet.

The Foundation values the community’s continued support and feedback as it publishes these reports. It’s part of the Foundation’s ongoing response to the community to provide as much transparency as possible.

New Accounts and Active Accounts
Daily new account (or new wallet) creation ended the week at around 17,000 per day. This is a slight decline from last week, which ended with  20,000 daily new accounts. The peak for this week was logged on December 20th when 19,000 new wallets were created. Put into context, roughly 14,300 wallets were being created daily at the start of December, making it a positive month for new accounts.

If a NEAR wallet makes an on-chain transaction, it’s counted in the Daily Number of Active Accounts metric. This past week, Daily Active Accounts ranged between 39,266 on December 18th to 46,235 on the 19th of the month. This is still well above August and September’s numbers, where Daily Active Accounts hovered around 10,000 with a Q4 2022 high of 183,000 accounts active logged on September 14.

New Contracts and Active Contracts
Smart contracts built on the NEAR blockchain are programs that automatically execute when certain parameters are met. By examining the Daily Number of New Contracts created, the community can get a better sense of how healthy the ecosystem is and its growth as well. 

The more new smart contracts are being actively executed, the more projects and users are engaging with NEAR. There was a substantial increase in the number of daily new contracts to end the week, climbing from 28 on the 17th to 46 by the 21st. This high of the last 7 days  was 63 on the 16th, and the low was 26 on December 18th.

Daily Number of Active Contracts measures contracts that were executed within a 24-hour time span. This ranged from a high of 797 on December 15th to a low of 535 on the 18th. These numbers are still well above the beginning of the year, where there were roughly between 200 to 400 daily active contracts.

Used Gas and Gas Fee
Gas Fees are the costs associated with conducting transactions on the NEAR network and blockchain. Validators for the network are compensated using Gas Fees for their services, incentivizing validators needed to secure the network.

Over the last week, Used Gas on the NEAR network (or PetaGas) declined slightly from 7,489 on the 15th, ending the week at 6,226. This is fairly consistent with the entire month of December, indicating that individuals are on the network and transacting regularly. 

During this past week, there has been a slight drop in the Gas Fee, which correlates with a drop in Used Gas. On December 18th, the Gas Fee was measured at 570, before peaking to 676 the following day. The rest of this week has hovered around 622. 

Daily Transactions
Finally, the Daily Number of Transactions shows how many times the blockchain logged a transaction over the past week. This week’s figures indicate a slight decrease from 454,757 on the 16th of December to 332,708 on the 21st. 

These reports are generated every week and published on Friday.
NEAR at Consensus Highlights
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 27, 2023
NEAR has a monolithic mega-booth at Consensus 2023, where there have been a number of awesome NEAR announcements, talks, and events, including the big news out: the Blockchain Operating System is now live on Near.org and the NEAR Horizon accelerator is open for business. If you haven’t stopped by yet to meet our NEAR experts or are unable to attend, we’ve got you covered with all of the highlights.

Let’s take a look at everything NEAR at Consensus, including the BOS, NEAR Horizon, a submissions call for the latest edition of Women in Web3, and much more! And stay tuned for more NEAR at Consensus highlights over the next few days.

The BOS is now live on Near.org
On April 26th at Consensus, NEAR co-founder and Pagoda CEO Illia Polosukhin and Pagoda Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi announced that the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) — a real alternative to the Operating Systems of centralized platforms — is now live at near.org. 

As a blockchain operating system for an open web, the BOS is accessible to everyone, not just web3 natives. And it makes Web3 and Web2 easier than ever to access and navigate for users and developers alike. With the BOS, you no longer have to choose between decentralization and discoverability. Devs and users get the best of both worlds, whether they are new to Web3 experiences and want to play around, or developers looking to build an open web. 

Read the full BOS announcement here. 

NEAR Horizon: A revolutionary accelerator for Web3 startups
NEAR Foundation also announced the launch of Near Horizon, a Web3 accelerator program, on the 26th from Consensus. Built on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), Horizon features a revolutionary marketplace where Web3 startups can find the support they need for building on Near and cross-chain platforms. 

Together with partners Dragonfly, Pantera, Decasonc, Blockchange, Fabric Ventures, dLab, Hashed, and Factomind, and Outlier Ventures, Near Horizon is on a mission to empower founding teams with the tools and support they require to accelerate the development of sustainable, profitable, innovative startups on Near.

Near Horizon’s robust network of support is a game-changer for Near builders, offering new opportunities and resources to propel the best minds in the Near ecosystem to success.

Read the full NEAR Horizon announcement here. 

NEAR opens submissions for Women in Web3 Changemakers 2023
Following its hugely successful launch a year ago, Women in Web3 is back! On Day 2 of Consensus, NEAR Foundation announced the return of its global Women in Web3 Changemakers list.  

Nominations are now open for 2023! Designed to showcase the talented and socially mindful women who make up the Web3 ecosystem, the initiative will once again spotlight ten exceptional leaders across the international sector and the amazing, sustainable work they do.

Members of the Web3 community — both men and women — are welcome to nominate and submit the names of female colleagues who they feel should be recognized for their exemplary contribution to Web3. Women who work in Web3 can also nominate themselves. 

Each nominee should meet the following criteria, which NEAR uses to define impact:

Inclusion – driving ideas that are good for society, sustainable, and socially impactful.
Influence – in the community and among peers.
Innovation – contributing to interesting and socially impactful projects at work or independently.
The top ten Changemakers will be decided by you — the community! 

Important Dates for Submissions and Voting

More details on the voting process will be announced shortly. But here are some important dates.

June 1, 2023 — Nominations Deadline
June 5, 2023 — Voting Begins
June 19, 2023 (Midnight) — Voting Ends
June 29, 2023 — 10 Changemakers for 2023 will be announced
Those selected will be included in the Women in Web3 Changemakers list, which will be shared with the press and the global community. NEAR will also feature the winners in a special series of video interviews that will air across NEAR’s social platforms and distribution network to share each award-winner’s story and contributions to Web3. Founders of Web3 companies that have made the list will also have the opportunity to meet with investors and pitch for funding at the event.

Google Cloud Unveils Web3 Startup Program 
Google Cloud recently made a splash in the Web3 space by announcing its Web3 Startup program via a Twitter thread during Consensus. Catering to seed and Series A projects and startups, the program offers up to $200K in cloud credits, and access to technical training. Recipients also receive partner perks including discounts on Nansen AI products and platform credits from Alchemy, and Thirdweb’s gasless contract deployment, support, and co-marketing opportunities.

Google’s support of Web3 will benefit founders building on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) and those partnering with the recently launched NEAR Horizon, an accelerator revolutionizing how founders are supported in Web3. NEAR Horizon will enable founding teams to scale their project with the support they need, increasing the number of founding teams building great products with real-world value on the NEAR Protocol.

To apply, visit the application portal and explore more information on the official website.

Here’s how to get involved:

Founders: Join NEAR Horizon here 
Accelerator Programmes: Register your interest in a partnership here
Backers: Register your interest in partnering here 
NEARCON is Returning to Lisbon and NEAR APAC is Headed to HCMC, Vietnam!
Today at Consensus, NEAR Foundation announced that NEARCON will take place in Lisbon, Portugal on November 7 – 10, 2023. In an effort to globally scale and create more accessible events, the NEAR Foundation also announced that NEAR APAC will take place in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam on September 8 – 12, 2023. Both events will gather an audience of builders, Web2 and Web3 entrepreneurs, industry professionals, investors, and creators from all over the world.

NEAR APAC will be the NEAR Ecosystem’s first and largest event in the APAC region. NEAR APAC delivers a world-class lineup of speakers to share latest APAC developments, unlimited potential of the blockchain industry, regional market insights, Web3 hacker festival, and insightful events for networking opportunities with local communities and partners. Head to https://nearapac.org/ on May 15th to secure your NEAR APAC tickets!

NEARCON, the NEAR Ecosystem’s Annual flagship conference is headed back to Lisbon. The Mainnet anniversary of the protocol’s launch and the biggest announcements from the Ecosystem will be featured at NEARCON. Hear from some of the most iconic names in Web3 speak on Technical updates, Web2 and Web3 trends, the latest on Governance and Regulation, Arts and Culture, and much more. 

This year the conference will take over two venues: Convento De Beato and Armazem Lisboa. Convento de Beato will host the core conference and will feature two larger stages whereas Armazem Lisboa will be Developers HQ where hackers will build all day. Both venues are just a 10 minute walk from each other. Mark your calendars because on June 1st NEARCON tickets will go live on nearcon.org!  

See you in HCMC and Lisbon this Fall!

Updates from around the NEAR Ecosystem
Mailchain brings encrypted communication to NEAR-based dApps
Mailchain, an open source, multi-chain communication layer for Web3, announced integration with NEAR. Now, NEAR developers can send encrypted messages between blockchain wallet addresses with simple, unified inbox to view and send messages and keep track of on-chain activity. 

NEAR’s vision has always been to onboard the next billion users to the Open Web. With Mailchain, these next billion users can communicate natively with one another, regardless of blockchain. 

Mailchain’s integration with NEAR is a significant step towards strengthening the interoperability mission of NEAR’s blockchain operating system (BOS). NEAR’s BOS and Mailchain are both chain-agnostic, prioritize usability and security, and together make Web3 more accessible and interoperable for users.

“Our vision aligns perfectly with NEAR’s–to onboard the next billion users,” said Tim Boeckmann, CEO of Mailchain. “When building Mailchain, we knew these next billion users would want to communicate with what mattered most to them, their blockchain identities. Mailchain’s secure communication protocol makes this a reality. We believe that this integration is a big step forwards for the developers who are building the next generation of the Internet.”

XP Network brings cross-chain NFT bridge to NEAR
During Consensus, the XP Network, a cross chain NFT bridge, went live on NEAR mainnet. XP Network allows NFT holders to transfer their NFTs to any other supported chain. XP Network recently showcased their cross-chain NFT bridge  by transferring a BSC NFT over to Near via the XP Network bridge, and selling it on Mintbase. 

Now, NFT marketplaces built on NEAR Protocol like Paras, Berry Club, Mintbase, Flux, Few & Far can list the most promising NFT collections from almost 30 other chains. XP Network’s integration will supercharge both arts and collectibles, as well as Web3 gaming on NEAR, with players now being able to buy and trade NFTs in-game across chains. 

kuutamo and Lattitude.sh give NEAR validators access to premium infrastructure
From Consensus, Kuutamo announced its partnership with enterprise-grade infrastructure provider Lattitude.sh, which will give developers and current NEAR validators more flexibility and control. NEAR validators using both kuutamo and Latitude can now access premium infrastructure at a limited promotional price, or apply for the kuutamo x Latitude Program.

A venture-backed technology company, Kuutamo offers a resilient and user-friendly node infrastructure, designed for the peer-to-peer economy. kuutamo launched the world’s first high availability node for the NEAR Protocol, giving users full control and flexibility (no lock-in effect) to execute their desired cloud strategies — differentiating itself from most large public cloud providers in the process.

Latitude is an emerging global leader, offering access to enterprise-grade infrastructure in the world’s most advanced data centers. In its partnership with kuutamo, Latitude is expanding its offering to developers and NEAR validators. Latitude already supports other leading blockchains and Web3 companies such as Solana, Ankr, and Riot Games.

WOMBI brings Web2-style analytics to NEAR
During Consensus, Wombi — a Web3 attribution platform — announced that it is now live on NEAR. With an aim to be the Google Analytics of Web3, Wombi helps decentralized app developers by connecting Web2 and Web3 funnels, so they can instantly see which marketing channels are bringing them the most impactful users. 

Wombi is now publicly available to all dApps fully live or building on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System or Protocol. All developers get free product and marketing analytics, making NEAR the first Layer 1 with a live attribution product. 
NEARCON 2022: Highlights, Talks and Videos
COMMUNITY
September 20, 2022
Missed NEARCON 2022? We’ve got you covered with content from the four conference stages, as well as a dizzying host of awesome announcements.

Here’s a sizzle to get you primed for all that happened at this year’s NEARCON. A NEARCON 2022 Dropbox folder has also been set up so everyone can peruse, download, and share all of the photos from the conference. There is also a NEARCON 2022 YouTube video playlist worth checking out.

NEARCON Day 1:  Year in Review, Regulatory Frameworks, Brave Fireside Chat, and More
Day One kicked off with a slew of exciting speakers, sessions, and announcements. It was headlined by notable names from an array of industries and backgrounds, from JavaScript inventor Brandon Eiche to renowned crypto legal expert Sheila Warren. 

From NEAR’s first ever transparency report to the announcement of a new Sports and Entertainment fund, here’s all the big news from Day One of NEARCON.

Ecosystem Announcements
Few and Far, a next-generation NFT marketplace built on NEAR, won a grant  to advance NFTs across the ecosystem.
NEAR unveiled the eleven winners of the Women in Web3 Changemakers competition to spotlight the achievement of women in Web3 and to showcase female role models in the ecosystem.
Tether, the first and most widely used stablecoin (“USDT”), launched on NEAR.
Sender Wallet raised US$4.5 Million in a private round led by Pantera  Capital.
NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) will help decentralize NEAR’s ecosystem governance and move decision-making on-chain to make community more resilient, transparent, and fair.
Phase 1 of NEAR’s Nightshade sharding was unveiled, making NEAR even more decentralized and scalable.
In a new Entertainment Fund, NEAR is backing a new $100m VC Fund and Lab focused on Web3’s evolution of culture, media, and entertainment 
The Fireblocks integration on NEAR went live.
Day 1 Videos
Layer 1 Stage
Nightshade Stage
Doomslug Stage
NEAR Year in Review and Transparency Report
NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament and NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin began the day by welcoming attendees on the Layer 1 Stage and delving into how NEAR is building beyond the hype through 2022 and beyond.

“We’re extremely excited about the diversity of attendees and over 220 speakers from so many different verticals and industries,” said Flament. “And we’ll continue to build upon our core vision of onboarding the next one billion users onto Web3 by helping the ecosystem build things that people can use.”

Flament returned solo to the stage for the “NEAR Year in Review,” recapping key milestones in the ecosystem over the last 12 months and unveiling NEAR’s first ever Transparency Report. Flament communicated top data from the report, including how the NEAR Grants fund had reached over $800 million in capital with over $540 million deployed within the ecosystem. Among the key sectors of grant recipients were Startup Funds, Regional Hubs, NFTs, Gaming and & Entertainment and DAOs. 

Watch the full talk. 

Bridging the Gap Between Web2 and Web3
Onboarding the next billion users onto Web3 requires an efficient tech stack and rich ecosystem of useful decentralized apps (dApps) and services, a topic that James Tromans from Google Cloud took to the Layer 1 Stage to address. While Tromans championed Web3, he also pointed out the Web2 services can play a role in easing the transition for developers.

“We need to make building in Web3 faster, better, and easier,” Tromans said. “For now, we can bring the best of Web2 services like Google Cloud to Web3 so that not everything has to be built from scratch.”

Tromans was then joined by a panel moderated by Emily Parker from Coindesk entitled “Bridge Builders, Why We Need Web 2.5.” In addition to Parker and Tromans, Susie Batt from Opera Browser and Satish Ramakrishan of BitGo contributed their opinions on the concept of a “Web 2.5” that could enable a more seamless transition to Web3.

Watch the full talk. 

Shelia Warren discusses Web3 regulatory frameworks
One of the biggest names headlining day one was Sheila Warren, crypto legal expert and CEO of the Crypto Council for Innovation. Warren took the Layer One stage during the afternoon to help attendees wade through the complex and controversial topics of regulation, governance, and legal frameworks in crypto and Web3.

“Who regulates crypto?” Warren posited to begin. “There is no definitive answer other than it’s complicated. It depends how projects are classified and certain power dynamics between the industry and regulators. What we need is a regulatory policy framework that addresses multiple aspects of decentralization.”

Warren added that regulation is not all bad and could have a beneficial effect on the space if done in an intelligent and collaborative manner. 

Watch the full talk. 

The next year on NEAR and Brave Fireside Chat
Looking ahead, NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin took the Layer 1 stage to offer his sentiments on the year ahead for the NEAR Foundation, protocol, and ecosystem. Polosukhin predicted a steady increase in both ecosystem funding and projects, with over 800 projects and growing, according to AwesomeNEAR.

“I’m very excited about next year as we’ll continue to build out a wide range of developer tooling that will facilitate the next generation of NEAR apps,” said Polosukhin. “We now have all the necessary primitives – like Paras for NFTs and AstroDAO for DAOs – that the NEAR ecosystem can now become more composable with richer experiences.”

Watch the full talk. 

Polosukhin then welcomed Brave founder Brandon Eiche to the stage for a fireside chat. Eiche is also the inventor of the JavaScript programming language, and the two discussed a wide array of topics including NEAR’s recently launched JavaScript SDK.

“Everything NEAR is doing feels like one of my children,” Eiche said. “On-chain JavaScript is simply a dream, and now so many developers can build on-chain without learning another language.”

Watch the full talk. 

NEARCON Day 2: Headlined by Messari, Armored Kingdom, and SailGP
Most anyone at Day Two of NEARCON could attest to the level of excitement and momentum for the entire NEAR ecosystem. And if there’s one thing that Day Two showcased, it’s that Web3 and NEAR are well along the path of mass adoption. From sports to social media and entertainment, real-world projects building on NEAR stepped forward in a big way on Day Two.

Session attendees came away with big updates and predictions for NEAR ecosystem partners like Sweatcoin and SailGP, not to mention a special appearance and workshop for the creators of Armored Kingdom. Everyone in the building also saw that the Hackathon was in full swing, with presentations and judging right around the corner.

Ecosystem Announcements 
New NEAR Regional Hubs launched in India and Vietnam to support Web3 innovation, education, and talent. 
Pagoda Console lets devs create without limits from an ad hoc toolkit, a one-stop tool shop that gives devs all they need to build Web3 apps.
Switchboard goes multichain with NEAR to give developers the best tools and data to build their apps.
Fayyr launched first NFT Marketplace for Social Impact Organizations on NEAR.
Chainstack, a leading blockchain managed services provider, launched support for NEAR on its platform.
Contented Media Group (CMG) received a Near Foundation grant to launch a Web3 platform where brands can interact with content creators. 
Bitstamp listed NEAR token on its exchange.
Day 2 Videos
Layer 1 Stage
Nightshade Stage
Doomslug Stage
Proof of Sound Stage
Ryan Selkis of Messari on navigating crypto cycles
Things started off with one of the biggest names at NEARCON, as Messari co-founder Ryan Selkis joined NEAR CEO Marieke Flament to discuss where we are in the current crypto cycle, building in a downturn, and how to navigate the future. Selkis was well-positioned to speak on the subject, having lived through multiple peaks and valleys of blockchain markets and adoption.

“We’re in the early innings of a long-term game,” Selkis told Flament. “Centralized institutions are weaker than ever and there’s transformational potential in a user-owned economy, empowering individuals and building more resilient systems.”

“This is the part of the cycle where protocols will begin to cross the chasm from MVP to mass adoption,” posited Selkis. “And now is the time to think long term about things like how the Web3 tech stack will develop and what a potential cross-chain future looks like.”

Watch the full talk. 

The SWEAT Economy gets NEARCON moving
Another major highlight of Day Two took place on the Layer One stage as Oleg Fomenko, co-founder of Sweatcoin, explained how the SWEAT economy was born, why the NEAR blockchain is playing a critical role, and where the move-to-earn economy is heading.

“We are literally witnessing the birth of the movement economy,” Fomenko exclaimed. “We created Sweatcoin in 2016 with that name because we assumed it would be on the blockchain. Now we’re number one on the App Store in over 66 countries with over 120 million users.”

Fomenko also recalled that in the early days of Sweatcoin, the Ethereum network simply couldn’t handle the number of transactions with adequate speed to truly bring his vision of move-to-earn to life.

“But when we found NEAR, it was a perfect match in terms of both vision and mission,” said Fomenko. “A fast, low-cost blockchain along with an incredible team is helping us push the movement economy forward and help users live healthier lifestyles.”

Watch the full talk. 

SailGP + NEAR Have the wind at their backs
Piggybacking on Day One’s announcement of the NEAR Foundation’s new Sports and Entertainment fund, NEAR CEO Marieke Flament returned to the stage to welcome SailGP’s CEO Russell Coutts and CTO Warren Jones. 

“SailGP as a brand and product is built on both being exciting and data driven,” said Coutts. “Our boats generate billions of data points per day that we use to improve the fan experience. We’ve always been technology focused, which is why working with NEAR to integrate Web3 and the blockchain makes so much sense.”

Flament added that one of the most exciting aspects to the partnership is how NEAR is currently helping SailGP facilitate a racing team being owned and operated by a DAO. Coutts also expressed this excitement, painting a picture of endless possibilities with how the DAO might choose to operate and increase fan engagement.

“The DAO might decide that certain token holders or the most engaged members can actually talk to athletes in the midst of a competition,” said Coutts. “Other things like special rewards for members or participating in team selection can also potentially be implemented. It’s all up to the DAO, which is what makes this initiative so special.”

Watch the full talk. 

Armored Kingdom gives a lesson in storytelling
One of the most anticipated gaming and metaverse projects finally touched down on Day Two of NEARCON. Armored Kingdom creators Lisa and Hugh Sterbakov were joined by writer Brian Turner to deconstruct the process of building a story arc, core elements to great storytelling, and what to expect from Armored Kingdom on NEAR.

“Armored Kingdom is not just a comic book or metaverse game,” said Lisa. “It’s an entire multimedia platform built where fans can participate and co-create. And we’ll be rolling out an animated series to go along with it.”

“Armored Kingdom is our playground,” Turner said. “The world is based on an endless conflict between four major tribes on an alien planet. There are religious undertones as well as a battle for a scarce resource – Armorite – with which very powerful weapons are made from.”

Lisa capped off the session by mentioning that building Armored Kingdom on NEAR is allowing the team to build features and functions into the game easily due to the tech stack, and in the end, fans can put as much or as little time in as they want.

“Web3 is allowing us to create communities and encourage participation that Web2 never has,” she said. “We’re currently receiving fan art submissions through our Discord community that have already made their way into the comic book.”

Watch the full talk. 

NEARCON Day 3: Circle, AstroDAO, and NEAR Digital Collective
The biggest NEARCON to date came to a close on Day Three with a slew of insightful speakers, interactive panels, and an unexpected announcement. Big names from organizations and projects like Circle, NearPay, and A16z helped make the conclusion of NEARCON 2022 feel extremely meaningful  and memorable.

Attendees got a glimpse at how DAOs work under the hood, where NEAR fits in with the ever-evolving fintech and payments space, and how builders should approach governance in a crypto winter. And then there was the unveiling of the NEAR Digital Collective, an ambitious leap in decentralizing and enhancing governance on the NEAR network.

Ecosystem Announcements 
SWEAT and NEAR partner to enable the masses to ‘walk into crypto.’
OnMachina to provide native large-scale storage system to dApps and services building on NEAR, creating capacity to support billions of users. 
Day 3 Videos
Layer 1 Stage
Nightshade Stage
Doomslug Stage
Proof of Sound Stage
Spotlight on Crypto Payments and Fintech
Day Three began with a meeting of the minds between NEAR CEO Marieke Flament and Jeremy Allaire, CEO of Circle. The pair started a morning of talks and discussions around crypto innovation, payments, and broader implications for governments and fintech. 

“You couldn’t have predicted the amount of innovation that’s taken place over the past decade and the millions of developers now on the blockchain,” Allaire from Circle said. “And now that we have the base layer technology in place for programmable money, along with decreasing costs of transactions, the stage is really set for exponential growth.”

Flament then asked Allaire about his perspective on the role that stablecoins and central bank digital currencies (CBDC) could play in the future of a blockchain and crypto-powered global financial ecosystem.

“What we really want to see is a composable system that resembles the software-powered internet,” Allair continued. “There’s certainly room for various stablecoins and CBDCs, as long as they continue the inertia towards self-sovereign commerce.”

The duo was followed by a panel entitled “Crypto Natives vs. Fintechs for the Future of Payments,” including notable names from Checkout.com, Roketo, and NearPay. The group discussed a range of topics, from making crypto payments more seamless for individuals and onboarding small businesses to the blockchain.

Watch the full talk. 

Deep Dive into DAOs and Governance
The afternoon on the Layer 1 Stage was filled with opinions and insights about Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), how they function, and the role of DAOs in the future of Web3 and society at large. In a panel about How DAOs Get Work Done, founders and leaders from AstroDAO, The Kin DAO, and CornerstoneDAO all offered unique perspectives.

“We created Kin DAO for the purposes of collaboratively owning physical land to create self-sustaining food systems and micro economies,” said Adrian Bello, founder of Kin DAO and Primordia DAO. “We’re practicing this decentralized governance in person and rehabilitating our relationship with Earth.”

Bello went on to explain that her new project, Primorida DAO, has the goal of onboarding as many DAOs as possible from excluded communities onto NEAR. That’s in large part because of the NEAR ecosystem’s focus on user-friendly DAO tooling and community building through AstroDAO.

“AstroDAO is our home for everything,” Bello continued. “Other chains can be somewhat hard to get into. But AstroDAO is accessible and has a low barrier to entry. We can reference decisions made on-chain and governance is therefore always transparent.”

Jordan Gray, the founder of AstroDAO, also explained how his project is focused on letting everyday users harness the power of DAOs. Smart contracts, APIs, and governance protocols all exist “under the hood” of AstroDAO, making it easier for both users and developers to create, engage with, and operate DAOs.

“DAOs are going to rock the business world in a way that we haven’t seen since the spreadsheet,” Gray predicts. “We’re on the cusp of a work revolution. And if we figure out new ways to incentivize voting, we might even fix democracy.”

Watch the full talk. 

Introducing the NEAR Digital Collective for Governance
Day Three of NEARCON concluded with one of the most exciting announcements of the entire conference. NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin and Harry Tafolla of Cheddar announced the creation of the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC), an ambitious initiative to further decentralize NEAR governance and create a more robust, resilient network.

“With the NEAR Digital Collective, we’re striving for a truly autonomous ecosystem,” Polosukhin said. “We need to do this on the people’s level, where we’re all accountable and responsible and systems are not chaotic or toxic.”

Polosukhin went on to explain that the NDC governance framework is akin to drafting the constitution of a newly formed nation, with core community members like Tafolla leading the charge to formulate, define, and implement NEAR governance from here on out.

Polosukhin said  that the NDC is a major step in addressing the needs of all stakeholders within the NEAR ecosystem, from users and DAOs to node validators and wallet developers. The NDC will also be dynamic and allow for constant updates and upgrades in governance frameworks and processes.

Watch the full talk. 

Hackathon winner and wrapping up NEARCON
Flament then took the stage along with Polosukhin to wrap up NEARCON 2022, highlighting that almost 3,000 attendees from 176 countries contributed to making this year’s gathering such a rousing success. In addition, 38% of all attendees were women, and NEAR handed out the first-ever Women in Web3 Changemakers awards for female role models in the space. 

Polosukhin also thanked the 500+ hackers who participated in the NEARCON 2022 Hackathon. Out of the 98 submissions, the winner chosen was Pomegrant, a browser plugin that allows users to eliminate ads and donate directly to content creators using crypto. 

“If there’s something that we hope you’re taking away from these past three days, it’s without limits,” Flament concluded. “We hope with NEAR you see that you can truly create without limits and realize whatever dreams and visions that you have for both your project and society. So let’s continue to create without limits, build beyond the hype, and get to one billion users!”

Watch the full talk. 

Thanks again to all who attended, contributed to, and engaged with NEARCON 2022. A big round of applause for the entire NEAR ecosystem and we’ll see you again at NEARCON 2023!


Zero-commitment onboarding to NEAR using Gitpod
COMMUNITY
April 14, 2020
NEAR has discovered a fantastic tool called Gitpod that gives new developers a kick-start, improves the efficacy of community code reviews, and saves resources on a developer’s machine.

With two clicks, a new developer comes to this:

It looks like an integrated development environment (IDE), but… on a web page? Yes, it is. A Docker-based image has been spun up, language/platform versions locked in, and dependencies have been installed automatically. There’s even a Terminal, giving the developer a perfectly-working project ready to poke and prod at. Before we get into more technical details, let’s take a step back.

Motivation
NEAR has a history of carefully choosing focus points for a scalable blockchain. Sharded, proof-of-stake blockchains are still in nascent stages and offer intriguing challenges. The most effective way for the community of contributors (the NEAR Collective) to thrive is twofold: first, to pick the right technological battles, and second, to use great tools when they’re identified. This is a reason why WebAssembly has been the backbone of NEAR’s virtual machine (VM). There are enough puzzles to solve without writing and maintaining a new VM. The same thing goes for writing smart contracts on NEAR. While there are customized bindings, NEAR utilizes reliable languages like Rust and AssemblyScript instead of writing another programming language. NEAR resists the urge to remake peripheral touchpoints of a blockchain system and instead focuses on making the best blockchain with the best tools.

Gitpod is one of those tools discovered recently. The Gitpod website lays it out clearly: Gitpod is a tool allowing developers to launch ready-to-code development environments for your Github projects with a single click. The code at NEAR Protocol lives on Github, where the NEAR Collective in building out the codebase. With a couple of settings, Gitpod integrates beautifully with Github in two ways:

Repository landing page — a Gitpod button opens the repository in the selected branch (typically master) This saves the end-user time and energy that would go into setting up a development environment.
Pull Requests — a Gitpod button appears on pull requests, showing a live version with the given changes. (This is excellent for quality assurance and code review.)
Gitpod in action
Expanding on the first bullet point above, NEAR has launched the new examples page showing various, simple, smart contracts that illustrate different facets of decentralized app (dApp) development. For instance, an example may show basic reading/writing to the blockchain with a Rust contract, or perform a cross-contract call, or create a custom token, or transfer tokens with an escrow system, etc. Using Gitpod, a developer has a frictionless experience getting an example application started. Gitpod uses a tried-and-true online IDE called Theia, which is fully compatible with VS Code extensions.

Gitpod also saves builds of the projects you’ve added to your “Gitpod workspaces” to further speed things up. We’ll not go into all the useful features of Gitpod, but encourage you to check them out.

NEAR has hosted a number of online and in-person hackathons and workshops. (At the time of this writing, we’re very excited about the upcoming Ready Layer One online event taking place May 4-6, 2020.) During in-person workshops, there’s historically been a battle between a shared internet connection and the participants downloading dependencies, tools, virtual machines, Docker images, etc. Gitpod is terrific for this use case as well, offloading the downloads and processing power elsewhere. Again, after a couple of clicks, the end-user finds a turnkey development environment ready to build on NEAR. Gitpod allows for a zero-commitment onboarding for everyone regardless of the operating system, internet speed, administrative permissions, and one’s development environment setup.

Wait, why not just clone a project?
NEAR understands that developers have options and limited time. Every second NEAR can save a developer is precious. That said, here’s a natural progression one might follow to build on NEAR, starting at zero-commitment, to local development, to a full dApp:

Copy/paste commands from the NEAR homepage to build a React app that integrates with the blockchain.
Eager to learn more, visit the examples page, and select an interesting one.
Click the “Open in Gitpod” button.
Follow the instructions in the README.
Sandbox time: change the source, build it again! (See README file for instructions)
Decide this (or another) example is the starting point for a personal or business dApp.
Follow the example page’s link to the Github repository and clone it.
Create a NEAR account using NEAR Wallet (In Gitpod, the NEAR accounts were automatically generated for convenience sake. They have rather dull names, so we typically create a more personalized account for further development.)
Continue local development; possibly even run against a local NEAR blockchain.
Create something you’re proud of, commit it to your own Github (or elsewhere) repository.
Give it a frontend (we have many examples of this) and deploy it! (Again, see README file for instructions)
Keep hacking, and hang out with us on Telegram.
Conclusion / future thoughts
Gitpod is an amazing tool that significantly cuts downtime for two important personas:

Members of the NEAR Collective making contributions to and reviewing code on Github
New developers who can’t/won’t alter their computer’s development environment
There’s untold potential in the Gitpod approach laid out here. Teachers can be introducing blockchain development in classrooms without having to install Rust on every computer. A curious mind can hack away on their first dApp using a public library’s computer with restricted permissions. End users struggling with an error can include a link to a Gitpod snapshot where an error can be reliably reproduced. It will be fascinating to see how else the development/learning lifecycle can benefit from a tool like this, and NEAR is excited to lean into it.

Lastly, dig into a Gitpod example for yourself at https://near.dev.


NEAR Launches Balkans Regional Hub to Incubate Web3 Talent and Projects
COMMUNITY
June 1, 2022
Fostering Regional Hubs around the world is an important part of NEAR Foundation’s mission. Fresh off the Kenya Regional Hub launch, the foundation has reached another milestone in the Regional Hubs strategy. 

This week, NEAR is excited to announce the launch of the NEAR Balkans Regional Hub, which will accelerate onboarding of Web3 talents and blockchain projects in the Balkans. The Balkans Regional Hub is only the latest, though certainly not the last, node Borderless Tech Associationin the NEAR Foundation’s ongoing efforts to globalize and democratize the Web3 industry. 

Web3 growth and talent in the Balkans
NEAR Balkans Regional Hub gathering in Belgrade, Serbia, May 2022
The Balkans is home to an incredibly talented and tech-savvy community. NEAR Balkans will tap into this deep pool of talent and creativity, accelerating the development of new Web3 projects and skills throughout the region. 

Beyond the region’s deep developer talent pool, the Balkans is also home to a growing community that includes startups and established businesses. Even before the hub’s launch, the Balkans had a number of Web3 success stories, attracting investor and global VC attention. 

Taken together, the region’s talent and startups made the Balkans an ideal node in NEAR’s Regional Hub network. 

NEAR Balkan’s mission
Established in partnership with the , NEAR Balkans provides the local community with tools and support to begin building on the NEAR protocol. The hub will be a resource for developers and entrepreneurs looking to educate themselves about the technology, and to expand the NEAR ecosystem. 

NEAR Balkans will also serve as a funnel for NEAR Foundation Grants. These grants will be made available to developers, entrepreneurs, and Web2 businesses with promising and innovative ideas for Web3 apps.   

NEAR Balkans attendees in Belgrade, Serbia, May 2022
The Balkans hub will also guide founders, developers, and community members throughout their journey. Beyond funding and education, NEAR Balkans will facilitate partnerships, mentoring, and incubation for both individuals and teams. The hub will also focus on launching new products from its innovation lab. The aim is to inspire the region’s entrepreneurs, and showcase why building in a more decentralized and democratized way is the future.

The Hub will drive activities and cover the following countries: Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Slovenia.

The NEAR Balkans team
The NEAR Balkans Hub features a team of more than 15 Web3 experts and blockchain enthusiasts. Team members come from a variety of backgrounds, including business, education, product labs and more. 

Collectively, the NEAR Balkans team members will leverage their Web3 experience in managing projects in the Balkan region. These efforts are crucial in driving the NEAR ecosystem’s growth, not only in the Balkans but also globally.

NEAR Balkans attendees in Zagreb, Croatia, May 2022
“We are dedicated to bringing the best of education and opportunities for companies and individuals interested in Web3 through strong local support across our Balkan region, which is full of creative, technical and business talents,” says Ida Pandur, General Manager of NEAR Balkans. We are looking forward to forming strong partnerships with teams, businesses and universities to bring the mission to execution.” 

An inspiring launch in the Balkans
Since coalescing six months ago, NEAR Balkans is officially launching on a high note. From Zagreb, Croatia to Belgrade, Serbia and Sofia, Bulgaria, the hub is lively base of developers, entrepreneurs, and students participating in a number of activities, from meetups to hackathons and internships. 

The hub has also launched several products on NEAR from its innovation lab, focusing on Web3 arenas such DeFi and NFTs. One such project is Electrocoin, the company behind Bitcoin Mjenjacnica, one of the biggest crypto exchanges in the region. Electrocoin enables customers to transfer money from crypto to fiat and vice versa. The app will also allow users to pay their bills and invoices. 

NEAR Balkans attendees in Sofia, Bulgaria, May 2022
Another project, CircuitMess, is building innovative DIY STEM toys for kids, and are currently at work on NFT integration. CircuitMess wants to equip children with the skills to build on Web3 today. 

The NEAR Balkans hub includes regional ambassadors, who attend meetups and share valuable information and contacts to anyone interested in learning or building on NEAR. There are tentative plans to hold 3 to 5 meetups a month across different Balkans cities, as well as two live hackathons in the coming months. 

Much like the NEAR Ukraine Regional Hub, NEAR Balkans is able to reach a large pool of developers. The hub is particularly focused on leveraging this talent pool for its Web3 education efforts, including workshops and collaborations with regional universities. It is also funneling students from a variety of backgrounds into the NEAR Certified Developer program. 

NEAR Balkans is only the beginning of what will be a long and prosperous journey of Web3 innovation in the region. 
Thanksgiving with NEAR | November 29th, 2019
COMMUNITY
November 29, 2019
If you are celebrating Thanksgiving, we hope that you have an amazing time. Our team has taken the holiday off but there is always time for a community update. So here it is – Enjoy!

In the spirit of Thanksgiving, we want to give a shout out to our community i.e. to You! We are building NEAR with a large ecosystem of developers, users, and supporters. Without your feedback, support and contribution, we would not have been able to move at this pace.

Our warriors are still going strong on Stake Wars. Fun fact, someone launched a phishing attack (stay sharp and don’t get fooled). You can read more on last week’s retrospective here. Note that we are publishing a retrospective every week on our blog.

Consistency is key! We are working hard on providing more educational material on NEAR Protocol. Continuing, the fourth NEAR Lunch and Learn Episode is out and focuses on Nightshade. Alex covers block production, approvals, separation of transactions into chunks, data availability, and finality.

Happy Thanksgiving! Photo by Randy Fath on Unsplash
COMMUNITY UPDATE
We are heavily working on community programs and redefining the structure and goal of existing ones. Stay tuned for further updates. 
Anais Urlichs (i.e. me) showed off some of the developer tools available on NEAR and gave a sneak peek into some of the new documentation at LederZ’s developer meetup in Berlin.
UPCOMING EVENTS
Next up, our second Hack Night! We had a lot of fun welcoming community members in our office in San Francisco. This Wednesday is the second edition. Not only are we able to provide 1-to-1 support and answer dev questions but the feedback also allows us to improve NEAR developer tools and the documentation. 

If you are unable to come, we would still love to hear from you! Your feedback will help us shape the developer experience on NEAR.

Anais showing off the Docs
WRITING AND CONTENT
If you want to learn more on how to get started building smart contracts on NEAR, Colin Eberhardt shared his experience in his post “WebAssembly on the Blockchain and JavaScript Smart Contracts”.
The fourth episode of our “Lunch and Learn” series is out. This time Alex is focusing on Nightshade, NEAR’s consensus design. 
Curious how Stake Wars is going and how you can get involved? Here is last week’s retrospective; also available in Chinese, translated by one of our amazing ambassadors. For further updates, join our Discord. 
Answer to “What gets you excited about the crypto space?” by Sasha
ENGINEERING UPDATES
178 PRs across 25 repos by 25 authors. Featured repos:nearcore,nearlib,near-shell,near-wallet,near-bindgen, assemblyscript-json, nomicon, near-fiddle-api, near-runtime-ts, near-contract-helper, borsh, stakewars and near-explorer;

Published v0.4.7 of nearcore
VRF implementation
Runtime stability improvement
Nightly test infrastructure
Making the Finality Gadget respect weights in nearcore
Release binary to gcloud in nearcore
Version 0.17.2 of nearlib
Switch rewards to 30% for function call only in nearcore
Allow genesis tool to specify shards to track in nearcore
Allow having conditional compilation and other method level attributes in near-bindgen
Release of version 0.14.2 of near-shell 
We now have a search box in near-explorer
Expose locked balance to smart contracts in near-bindgen
Dashboard transaction history in near-wallet
We’ve hit the 400 stars mark on GitHub!
https://upscri.be/633436/


NEAR’s Road to Decentralization
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 3, 2022
Since its inception, NEAR Foundation has been committed to not only helping build a fast, secure and scalable blockchain, but to facilitate the decentralization of network to the community.

Not only are concrete steps being taken to fast-track the decentralization of NEAR’s underlying technology and infrastructure, but massive contributions are being made towards galvanizing the developer community, ensuring that power lies with the community upon which NEAR thrives.

In this series, NEAR Foundation explores decentralization from different perspectives.

Decentralizing for a vibrant Web3 experience
In decentralization, control and decision-making is transferred from one centralized authority to a distributed network of community participants. At their core, decentralized networks work to improve functionality, security, and success of the network by removing the ability for any individual party to exert control over another. 

Decentralization provides a trustless environment, where overall data reconciliation is improved through validators, and every participant has access to a real-time, shared view of the data. Decentralization really shines through its ability to optimize resource distribution, resulting in an amazingly reliable and consistent experience for developers, validators, and end-users alike.

Decentralization as a core principle doesn’t stop with NEAR’s underlying tech. Rather, the concept has been applied by the NEAR community to further its mission of engaging the worldwide community to have a voice in the future of blockchain and Web3. The NEAR Governance community acts as a forum for the community to discuss topical NEAR protocol improvements and governance initiatives. Development of the protocol is open source, inviting all to join an already thriving, diverse, and decentralized community. 

Rooted in cutting edge, scalable infrastructure
In November 2021, NEAR launched Simple Nightshade, the first step toward a fully sharded and secure blockchain. Most blockchains require every node (stakeholders maintaining the network) to store all of the chain’s information as well as process all of the network’s transactions for block production. While keeping the network secure, this can lead to extreme inefficiency and unbearable slowness, as it takes varying amounts of time for all nodes to keep themselves up to date. In turn, this can also make Web3 app building and scaling prohibitively expensive for some developers – a significant hurdle to mainstream adoption. 

NEAR’s Nightshade Sharding alleviates inefficiency and bottlenecks by partitioning a database into smaller pieces (shards). Nodes are divided into small groups responsible for one part of the chain’s data and are able to process transactions simultaneously. The inefficiency of one node verifying transactions in one block is supplanted by multiple nodes verifying transactions in multiple blocks. The result is exceptional speed and throughput on the chain.

While many new blockchains are developing layer 2 scaling solutions and offer theoretical throughput of thousands of transactions-per-second (TPS), their underlying infrastructures hit upper limits that ultimately place a throttle on their capabilities. NEAR’s Nightshade Sharding allows for linear scaling of throughput corresponding to the number of shards, laying the foundation to scale to demand as more and more users onboard the platform. In essence, the network will create more shards when the network is in high demand, and scale them back when demand drops, saving energy and resources. Ultimately, Nightshade gives NEAR the capability to accommodate mass consumer adoption, up to billions of users. 

NEAR is simultaneously working on a number of improvements on the protocol level that will build a secure, user-friendly, and scalable blockchain that can support mainstream usage and adoption. 

Accessible and inclusive blockchain validation
In December 2021, the NEAR Protocol team released the updated validator selection algorithm, paving the way for 100 validator nodes on Mainnet, which reduces the validators’ barrier to entry by bringing down the seat price from 3.6 million $NEAR to 67,000. This lowered seat price makes it easier for them to join the active validator set and to maintain their seats. Working against exclusivity, NEAR is committed to making these seats accessible to all demographics, socio-economic classes, and geo-locations.

To further lower validators’ barrier to entry and make this role more accessible to all, NEAR is introducing Chunk-Only Producers in mid-2022. Soon, more individuals will be able to contribute to the participants in the block producing process, which creates new opportunities to not only earn rewards but also enhance the NEAR ecosystem’s security 

The unique role of Chunk-Only Producers allows entities to be solely responsible for producing chunks (parts of the block from a shard) in one shard (a partition on the network). A truly democratizing moment for the NEAR community, this increases the potential for anyone to be an active participant in NEAR’s validator community, as producers need only validate one shard, which requires hardware as simple and attainable as a 4-Core CPU with 8 GB of RAM. 

Long gone are the images of massive buildings filled with rows of server racks so often associated with crypto. NEAR’s design renders obsolete the supercomputers needed to participate in blockchain validation. By removing this traditional high barrier to entry, the stage has been set for a new, large group of Chunk-Only Producers to emerge, dramatically increasing the number of validators on the NEAR network. The evolution of this new role translates to an overall increase in decentralization and security of the network.

Decentralization as a catalyst for community  
Decentralization doesn’t stop at the NEAR blockchain’s underlying technology and infrastructure. NEAR is placing power into the hands of those who matter most – the end-users and developer community. 

Nearly two years ago, NEAR launched the Guild Community. Conceptualized as a reference to Roman times and Role-Playing Games (RPGs), where groups of builders, makers, and merchants connected to achieve common goals, Guilds have matured into communities that share common interests in supporting the Web3 ecosystem while maintaining a stunning amount of diversity on a global scale. 250+ Guilds exist today, all working to further their common goals, while pushing the shared mission to enhance and grow the NEAR ecosystem, as well as build a multi-chain Web 3 future. 

Guilds act as community vehicles in the NEAR Ecosystem. By supporting core protocol development, they add a vibrant collection of unique projects built atop its foundation. Knowing no bounds, NEAR Guilds exist across a melting pot of physical geographies and industries. Myriad interests and goals are represented, such as energy-efficient blockchains (Clean NFT), rewarding humans for their contributions to the world (Human), supporting social good initiatives in the Web3 space (Marma J), and so many more.

Guilds, the heart of the many that contribute to this growing movement, have grown to become the bedrock of the human element in decentralizing the NEAR community.

Growth is not optional
As NEAR Protocol continues to grow and place a continued emphasis on true decentralization, this marks both a milestone towards its ultimate goals, but also just the beginning of an exciting journey ahead. As we quickly approach Q2 of 2022, NEAR Foundation has already demonstrated its ability to plan and deliver on its overall roadmap of decentralization within the organization and making real investments in fostering a growing validator community and a better overall Web3 user experience. 

Constantly challenging its own premises and writing a future that will allow for the NEAR community to build, gather, innovate, and grow together, NEAR Protocol is pushing the concepts of decentralization in the Web3 world. 

A rich, robust underlying infrastructure paired with a thriving community of innovative Web3 developers and end-users makes for the perfect combination in allowing the community to grow independently and organically, building upon a phenomenal toolset capable of unlocking unabated potential, all on NEAR. 

Stay tuned for part two of the series.


The authoritative guide to Blockchain Sharding, part 1
DEVELOPERS
December 5, 2018
This blog post is the first in the series of two on Blockchain Sharding. After reading this blog post you will know why Sharding is the path to the future-proof blockchain protocols, how Sharding is being built today, what challenges all the sharded protocols face, and how such challenges can be addressed. The second post covers more advanced topics such as data availability, data validity and corrupting shards.

It is well-known that Ethereum, the most used general purpose blockchain at the time of this writing, can only process less than 20 transactions per second on the main chain. This limitation, coupled with the popularity of the network, leads to high gas prices (the cost of executing a transaction on the network) and long confirmation times; despite the fact that at the time of this writing a new block is produced approximately every 10–20 seconds the average time it actually takes for a transaction to be added to the blockchain is 1.2 minutes, according to ETH Gas Station. Low throughput, high prices, and high latency all make Ethereum not suitable to run services that need to scale with adoption.

What is the primary reason for Ethereum’s low throughput? The reason is that every node in the network needs to process every single transaction. Developers have proposed many solutions to address the issue of throughput on the protocol level. These solutions can be mostly separated into those that delegate all the computation to a small set of powerful nodes, and those that have each node in the network only do a subset of the total amount of work. An extreme case of the former approach is Thunder that has one single node processing all the transactions and claims to achieve 1200 tx/sec, a 100x improvement over Ethereum (I do not, however, endorse Thunder, or attest to the validity of their claims). Algorand, SpaceMesh, Solana all fit into the former category, building various improvements in the consensus and the structure of the blockchain itself to run significantly more transactions, but still bounded by what a single (albeit very powerful) machine can process.

The latter approach, in which the work is split among all the participating nodes, is called sharding. This is how Ethereum Foundation currently plans to scale Ethereum. At the time of this writing the full spec is still not published. I wrote a detailed overview of Ethereum shard chains and comparison of their Beacon chain consensus to Near’s.

Near Protocol is also building sharding. Near team includes three ex-MemSQL engineers responsible for building sharding, cross-shard transactions and distributed JOINs, as well as five ex-Googlers, and has significant industry expertise in building distributed systems.

In this post I summarize the core ideas of blockchain sharding, on which both Near and majority of other sharded protocols are based. The subsequent post will outline more advanced topics in sharding.

The simplest Sharding, a.k.a. Beanstalk
Let’s start with the simplest approach to sharding, that we throughout this write-up will call a Beanstalk. This is also what Vitalik calls “scaling by a thousand altcoins” in this presentation.

In this approach instead of running one blockchain, we will run multiple, and call each such blockchain a “shard”. Each shard will have its own set of validators. Here and below we use a generic term “validator” to refer to participants that verify transactions and produce blocks, either by mining, such as in Proof of Work, or via a voting-based mechanism. For now let’s assume that the shards never communicate with each other.

The Beanstalk design, though simple, is sufficient to outline some major challenges in sharding.

Validator partitioning and Beacon chains
The first challenge is that with each shard having its own validators, each shard is now 10 times less secure than the entire chain. So if a non-sharded chain with X validators decides to hard-fork into a sharded chain, and splits X validators across 10 shards, each shard now only has X/10 validators, and corrupting one shard only requires corrupting 5.1% (51% / 10) of the total number of validators.

Which brings us to the second point: who chooses validators for each shard? Controlling 5.1% of validators is only damaging if all those 5.1% of validators are in the same shard. If validators can’t choose which shard they get to validate in, a participant controlling 5.1% of the validators is highly unlikely to get all their validators in the same shard, heavily reducing their ability to compromise the system.

Almost all sharding designs today rely on some source of randomness to assign validators to shards. Randomness on blockchain on itself is a very challenging topic and would deserve a separate blog post at some later date, but for now let’s assume there’s some source of randomness we can use.

Both the randomness and the validators assignment require computation that is not specific to any particular shard. For that computation, practically all existing designs have a separate blockchain that is tasked with performing operations necessary for the maintenance of the entire network. Besides generating random numbers and assigning validators to the shards, these operations often also include receiving updates from shards and taking snapshots of them, processing stakes and slashing in Proof-of-Stake systems, and rebalancing shards when that feature is supported. Such chain is called a Beacon chain in Ethereum and Near, a Relay chain in PolkaDot, and the Cosmos Hub in Cosmos.

Throughout this post we will refer to such chain as a Beacon chain. The existence of the Beacon chain brings us to the next interesting topic, the quadratic sharding.

Quadratic sharding
Sharding is often advertised as a solution that scales infinitely with the number of nodes participating in the network operation. While it is in theory possible to design such a sharding solution, any solution that has the concept of a Beacon chain doesn’t have infinite scalability. To understand why, note that the Beacon chain has to do some bookkeeping computation, such as assigning validators to shards, or snapshotting shard chain blocks, that is proportional to the number of shards in the system. Since the Beacon chain is itself a single blockchain, with computation bounded by the computational capabilities of nodes operating it, the number of shards is naturally limited.

However, the structure of a sharded network does bestow a multiplicative effect on any improvements to its nodes. Consider the case in which an arbitrary improvement is made to the efficiency of nodes in the network which will allow them faster transaction processing times.

If the nodes operating the network, including the nodes in the Beacon chain, become four times faster, then each shard will be able to process four times more transactions, and the Beacon chain will be able to maintain 4 times more shards. The throughput across the system will increase by the factor of 4 x 4 = 16 — thus the name quadratic sharding.

It is hard to provide an accurate measurement for how many shards are viable today, but it is unlikely that in any foreseeable future the throughput needs of blockchain users will outgrow the limitations of quadratic sharding. The sheer number of nodes necessary to operate such a volume of shards securely is orders of magnitude higher than the number of nodes operating all the blockchains combined today.

However, if we want to build future proof protocols, it might be worth starting researching solutions to this problem today. The most developed proposal as of now is exponential sharding, in which shards themselves are forming a tree, and each parent shard is orchestrating a series of child shards, while can itself be a child of some other shard.

Vlad Zamfir is known to be working on a sharding design that doesn’t involve a beacon chain; I worked with him on one of the prototypes, the detailed overview of which is here.

State Sharding
Up until now we haven’t defined very well what exactly is and is not separated when a network is divided into shards. Specifically, nodes in the blockchain perform three important tasks: not only do they 1) process transactions, they also 2) relay validated transactions and completed blocks to other nodes and 3) store the state and the history of the entire network ledger. Each of these three tasks imposes a growing requirement on the nodes operating the network:

The necessity to process transactions requires more compute power with the increased number of transactions being processed;
The necessity to relay transactions and blocks requires more network bandwidth with the increased number of transactions being relayed;
The necessity to store data requires more storage as the state grows. Importantly, unlike the processing power and network, the storage requirement grows even if the transaction rate (number of transactions processed per second) remains constant.
From the above list it might appear that the storage requirement would be the most pressing, since it is the only one that is being increased over time even if the number of transactions per second doesn’t change, but in practice the most pressing requirement today is the compute power. The entire state of Ethereum as of this writing is 100GB, easily manageable by most of the nodes. But the number of transactions Ethereum can process is around 20, orders of magnitude less than what is needed for many practical use cases.

Zilliqa is the most well-known project that shards processing but not storage. Sharding of processing is an easier problem because each node has the entire state, meaning that contracts can freely invoke other contracts and read any data from the blockchain. Some careful engineering is needed to make sure updates from multiple shards updating the same parts of the state do not conflict. In those regards Zilliqa is taking a very simplistic approach, which I analyze in this post.

While sharding of storage without sharding of processing was proposed, I’m not aware of any project working on it. Thus in practice sharding of storage, or State Sharding, almost always implies sharding of processing and sharding of network.

Practically, under State Sharding the nodes in each shard are building their own blockchain that contains transactions that affect only the local part of the global state that is assigned to that shard. Therefore, the validators in the shard only need to store their local part of the global state and only execute, and as such only relay, transactions that affect their part of the state. This partition linearly reduces the requirement on all compute power, storage, and network bandwidth, but introduces new problems, such as data availability and cross-shard transactions, both of which we will cover below.

Cross-shard transactions
Beanstalk as a model is not a very useful approach to sharding, because if individual shards cannot communicate with each other, they are no better than multiple independent blockchains. Even today, when sharding is not available, there’s a huge demand for interoperability between various blockchains.

Let’s for now only consider simple payment transactions, where each participant has account on exactly one shard. If one wishes to transfer money from one account to another within the same shard, the transaction can be processed entirely by the validators in that shard. If, however, Alice that resides on shard #1 wants to send money to Bob who resides on shard #2, neither validators on shard #1(they won’t be able to credit Bob’s account) nor the validators on shard #2 (they won’t be able to debit Alice’s account) can process the entire transaction.

There are two families of approaches to cross-shard transactions:

Synchronous: whenever a cross-shard transaction needs to be executed, the blocks in multiple shards that contain state transition related to the transaction get all produced at the same time, and the validators of multiple shards collaborate on executing such transactions. The most detailed proposal known to me is Merge Blocks, described here.
Asynchronous: a cross-shard transaction that affects multiple shards is executed in those shards asynchronously, the “Credit” shard executing its half once it has sufficient evidence that the “Debit” shard has executed its portion. This approach tends to be more prevalent due to its simplicity and ease of coordination. This system is today proposed in Cosmos, Ethereum Serenity, Near, Kadena, and others. A problem with this approach lies in that if blocks are produced independently, there’s a non-zero chance that one of the multiple blocks will be orphaned, thus making the transaction only partially applied. Consider the figure below that depicts two shards both of which encountered a fork, and a cross-shard transaction that was recorded in blocks A and X’ correspondingly. If the chains A-B and V’-X’-Y’-Z’ end up being canonical in the corresponding shards, the transaction is fully finalized. If A’-B’-C’-D’ and V-X become canonical, then the transaction is fully abandoned, which is acceptable. But if, for example, A-B and V-X become canonical, then one part of the transaction is finalized and one is abandoned, creating an atomicity failure. We will cover how this problem is addressed in proposed protocols in the second part, when covering changes to the fork-choice rules and consensus algorithms proposed for sharded protocols.
Note that communication between chains is useful outside of sharded blockchains too. Interoperability between chains is a complex problem that many projects are trying to solve. In sharded blockchains the problem is somewhat easier since the block structure and consensus are the same across shards, and there’s a beacon chain that can be used for coordination. In a sharded blockchain, however, all the shard chains are the same, while in the global blockchains ecosystem there are lots of different blockchains, with different target use cases, decentralization and privacy guarantees.

Building a system in which a set of chains have different properties but use sufficiently similar consensus and block structure and have a common beacon chain could enable an ecosystem of heterogeneous blockchains that have a working interoperability subsystem. Such system is unlikely to feature validator rotation, so some extra measures need to be taken to ensure security. Both Cosmos and PolkaDot are effectively such systems. This writeup by Zaki Manian from Cosmos provides detailed overview and comparison of the key aspects of the two projects.

Malicious behavior
You now have a good understanding of how sharding is implemented, including the concepts of the beacon chain, validator rotations and cross-shard transactions.

With all that information, there’s one last important thing to consider. Specifically, what adversarial behavior can malicious validators exercise.

Malicious Forks
A set of malicious validators might attempt to create a fork. Note that it doesn’t matter if the underlying consensus is BFT or not, corrupting sufficient number of validators will always make it possible to create a fork.

It is significantly more likely for more that 50% of a single shard to be corrupted, than for more than 50% of the entire network to be corrupted (we will dive deeper into these probabilities in the second part). As discussed above, cross-shard transactions involve certain state changes in multiple shards, and the corresponding blocks in such shards that apply such state changes must either be all finalized (i.e. appear in the selected chains on their corresponding shards), or all be orphaned (i.e. not appear in the selected chains on their corresponding shards). Since generally the probability of shards being corrupted is not negligible, we can’t assume that the forks won’t happen even if a byzantine consensus was reached among the shard validators, or many blocks were produced on top of the block with the state change.

This problem has multiple solutions, the most common one being occasional cross-linking of the latest shard chain block to the beacon chain. The fork choice rule in the shard chains is then changed to always prefer the chain that is cross-linked, and only apply shard-specific fork-choice rule for blocks that were published since the last cross-link. We will talk more about what fork-choice rules are, and provide an in-depth analysis of proposed fork-choice rules for sharded blockchains in the second part.

Approving invalid blocks
A set of validators might attempt to create a block that applies the state transition function incorrectly. For example, starting with a state in which Alice has 10 tokens and Bob has 0 tokens, the block might contain a transaction that sends 10 tokens from Alice to Bob, but ends up with a state in which Alice has 0 tokens and Bob has 1000 tokens.

In a classic non-sharded blockchain such an attack is not possible, since all the participant in the network validate all the blocks, and the block with such an invalid state transition will be rejected by both other block producers, and the participants of the network that do not create blocks. Even if the malicious validators continue creating blocks on top of such an invalid block faster than honest validators build the correct chain, thus having the chain with the invalid block being longer, it doesn’t matter, since every participant that is using the blockchain for any purpose validates all the blocks, and discards all the blocks built on top of the invalid block.

On the figure above there are five validators, three of whom are malicious. They created an invalid block A’, and then continued building new blocks on top of it. Two honest validators discarded A’ as invalid and were building on top of the last valid block known to them, creating a fork. Since there are fewer validators in the honest fork, their chain is shorter. However, in classic non-sharded blockchain every participant that uses blockchain for any purpose is responsible for validating all the blocks they receive and recomputing the state. Thus any person who has any interest in the blockchain would observe that A’ is invalid, and thus also immediately discard B’, C’ and D’, as such taking the chain A-B as the current longest valid chain.

In a sharded blockchain, however, no participant can validate all the transactions on all the shards, so they need to have some way to confirm that at no point in history of any shard of the blockchain no invalid block was included.

Note that unlike with forks, cross-linking to the Beacon chain is not a sufficient solution, since the Beacon chain doesn’t have the capacity to validate the blocks. It can only validate that a sufficient number of validators in that shard signed the block (and as such attested to its correctness).

I am aware of only two solutions to this problem, neither of which is really satisfactory today:

Have some reasonable mechanism that will alert the system if an attempt to apply the state transition incorrectly is made. Assuming that each shard is running some sort of BFT consensus, for as long as number of malicious validators in a particular shard is less than ⅔, at least one honest validator would need to attest to a block, and verify that the state transition function is applied correctly. If more than ⅔ of the nodes are malicious, they can finalize a block without a single honest node participating. Assuming that at least one node in the shard is not malicious, some mechanism is needed that would allow such nodes to monitor what blocks are being produced, and have sufficient time to challenge nodes with invalid state transition.
Have some information in the blocks that is sufficient to prove that the state transition is applied correctly but is significantly cheaper to validate than the actual application of the state transition function. The closest mechanism to achieve that is zk-SNARKs (though we don’t really need the “zk”, or zero-knowledge, part, a non-zk SNARK would be sufficient), but zk-SNARKs are notoriously slow to compute at this point.
Many protocols today assume that with proper validator rotation and a byzantine fault tolerant consensus neither forks nor invalid state transitions are possible. We will begin the subsequent Sharding 201 by addressing why this assumption is not reasonable.

Outro
With the above information you now know most of the important aspects of sharding, such as the concept of the Beacon chain, computation versus state sharding, and cross-shard transactions. Stay tuned for the second part with Sharding 201 which will dive deeper into attack prevention.

In the meantime be sure to join our Discord channel where we discuss all technical and non-technical aspects of Near Protocol, such as consensus, economics and governance:

https://discord.gg/nqAXT7h
We also recently open sourced our code, read more here, or explore the code on GitHub.

Make sure to follow Near Protocol on Twitter to not miss our future blog posts, including Sharding 201, and other announcements:

http://twitter.com/nearprotocol
http://twitter.com/AlexSkidanov
https://upscri.be/633436/

 

Huge thanks to Monica Quaintance from Kadena and Zaki Manian from Cosmos for providing lots of valuable early feedback on this post.
How Vietnam Became a Web3 Powerhouse
COMMUNITY
September 4, 2023
Asia is Web3’s engine room. According to a report by Emergen Research, the Web3 global market is expected to be worth $81.5 billion by 2030, growing at an annual rate of more than 40%. Asia is set to capture most of that growth.  

That’s because the region has some of the highest adoption rates of Web3 technologies anywhere in the world. In Japan, more than five million people currently own cryptocurrency, the South Korean government became the first to directly invest in the metaverse, and   almost 70% of people in Southeast Asia alone have used at least one metaverse-related tech in the last year.

One of the leaders in the region is Vietnam. In recent years, international investors have flooded into Vietnam and established funds specialising in blockchain – with capital inflows into non-fungible token (NFT) assets rising from 37 million USD to 4.8 billion USD in 2021. 

It’s why the NEAR Foundation is one of the leading investors in Asia, thanks to its partnerships with the likes of Alibaba Cloud, and why it’s hosting its first major conference in Vietnam.

Taking place September 8-12 NEAR APAC will bring together more than 100 global blockchain leaders to discuss blockchain’s unlimited future through the latest blockchain technology updates, development trends, and how blockchain ecosystems drive Web3 mass adoption. 

Vietnam on the rise 
Vietnam has all the ingredients to become a Web3 super power. The country has 

more than 400,000 skilled software engineers, produces 50,000 IT graduates annually, and has an IT labour force more than a million strong. 

The nation’s software engineers rank at an impressive 8th place globally in terms of capability — 95% of which have bachelor’s degrees or higher in IT. It’s unsurprising then to hear that Vietnam now has 3,800 blockchain-related projects, 200 venture capital funds, and 100 project incubation funds to support the country’s startups. 

Vietnam’s tech landscape is now full of startups and innovation hubs fostering creativity in Web3. Local incubators and accelerators provide mentorship, resources, and networking opportunities for Web3 entrepreneurs. 

That growth also has government support. In 2021, Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh greenlit the country’s “e-government” development strategy designed to create regulatory clarity for Web3 projects. Last year, the country launched its first official blockchain association, which is helping blockchain builders and business owners become a bigger part of the regulatory conversation.  

Its chairman, Hoang Van Huay, has shared the Vietnam Blockchain Association’s commitment to “providing consultation on building legal framework, regulations, and standards in developing services and products on blockchain”. This commitment is part of a broader mission to accelerate the growth of blockchain technology in Vietnam.

It’s no wonder then that Vietnam ranks first in the Global Cryptocurrency Adoption Index released by Chainalysis, up from 10th place the year before. 
Vietnam is on the rise, and the NEAR Foundation is here to support it. Join us at NEAR APAC on 8-12 September 2023 in Ho Chi Minh City.
NEAR and SailGP Partner on Ground-Breaking New Sports DAO
COMMUNITY
March 25, 2022
NEAR is excited to announce a new partnership with SailGP, one of the world’s fastest-growing sailing events. As part of this ground-breaking multi-year partnership, SailGP will explore the sale of a new team to a DAO launched on the NEAR Protocol – a first-of-its-kind community engagement and activation platform in professional sports.

SailGP’s DAO will fuse professional sports with community-focused engagement, giving fans and crypto natives alike a new way to engage and gain access to their favorite teams, athletes, and related events. 

Under the current SailGP Teams’ Participation Agreement, this new DAO team could join the SailGP starting line-up for Season 4 in 2023.

“We welcome NEAR to the SailGP family and we are looking forward to them participating in the most exciting racing on-water, featuring the world’s best sailors,” SailGP Founder Larry Ellison said.

How SailGP’s NEAR DAO will work
Like any other DAO, the SailGP team DAO will be a community project. Through proposals, the SailGP team DAO’s community members  will help determine athlete selection, team management, commercialization options, operations, and overall team strategy.

The SailGP DAO will be a big departure from traditional sports team ownership structures. It will help reimagine sports communities, where fans have a say in how teams form and evolve.  

Other NEAR and SailGP partnership initiatives
SailGP and NEAR will partner for a number of other new and exciting projects to help inspire a new generation of Web3 developers to build on NEAR.

Beyond DAOs, NEAR and SailGP will collaborate on integrated technology and research and development projects in events ticketing, NFT and gaming offerings, and mobile app integration. NEAR will also use SailGP’s global technology platform to develop real-world intellectual property and Web3 applications for fan engagement, data delivery and management, league management, and more. 

NEAR will also create on-site experiences and activations at global SailGP events to help traditional industries transition to Web3 through NEAR’s simple, secure, and scalable blockchain platform. These events will be open to both new and existing NEAR community members. 

“Our mission is to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world, and this partnership is a fantastic example of exactly that,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, the non-for profit entity that oversees development on the NEAR blockchain. 

“We are ushering in a brand-new era of entertainment by combining sports and technology to elevate the fan experience to a level that has never been seen before, and we’re proud to be leading the way alongside a like-minded organization that shares our core values and vision.”

IMG, SailGP’s global agency for sponsorship, media rights and host venue rights, helped facilitate NEAR’s partnership with SailGP. (IMG is part of Endeavor, a strategic investor in SailGP.) 

“This deal presents an exciting opportunity to change how fans can directly influence and participate in the sports they love,” said Mark Shapiro, President of Endeavor. “We are proud to have brokered this ground-breaking partnership which is the culmination of what happens when sport, technology and entertainment collide.”


NEAR & Gaming: The Future of Gaming on Web3
COMMUNITY
August 22, 2022
Most people when asked why they play games will give a simple answer: because games are fun. And though “fun” might mean different things to different people, with Web3 gaming, at least in its present form, “fun” is only sometimes part of the equation. 

“We tend to conflate games with fun, but the thing is, a game doesn’t necessarily have to be fun to be engaging,” says Chase Freo, CEO and Co-founder of OP Games. “There are a lot of different games out there that evoke different types of emotions.”

Though many gamers have a keen sense of what they enjoy and want to see more of, Web3 gaming’s direction will be determined not only by what is fun, but also by what developers and gamers realize is possible through experimentation. 

Freo compares Web3 gaming to couture fashion season, when designers and runway models often show styles that stretch the limits of taste and the imagination. Think enormous hats, clothes made of garbage, and costumes that would seem extreme even at Burning Man. This couture fashion isn’t meant for the street—it’s made to see what’s possible.

In Web3 gaming, the goal isn’t necessarily to make or viral iconic games, but to plant the seeds for what games might one day be able to do. This starts with the technology itself.

Web2.5: The bridge to Web3
“A lot of times people sacrifice player experience to have a Web3 spin to it—that makes sense,” says Freo, who says gaming needs developers willing to experiment and try new things to evolve the ecosystem. “For example, bring[ing] game states on-chain [is] not optimal…but you kind of want to push it that way, so that you’ll see exactly where you can draw the line.” 

Freo explains that there are generally two camps of developers: Web2 game designers who focus on gameplay, and devs who really push the envelope with blockchain but sacrifice playability in the process.

“Most games in Web3 are actually a combination of Web2 and Web3, so it’s like Web2.5,” says Freo. “[They combine] aspects of what works on the blockchain [and] everything else is centralized because it works better.” 

Hugo Furneaux and Jon Hook at playEmber, a game-fi middleware company that brings Web3 to Web2 mobile games, echo Freo’s “Web2.5” view. Furneaux, playEmber’s CEO, describes the platform as “an amalgamation” of Web2 and Web3, where developers make extremely fun games while on-ramping Web2 users into Web3. They simply play games they already know and love with Web3 features that are low-key. 

“There’s an added element now, which makes it more fun, where you can just put in your email [and] we do all the rest in the background,” he says. “And it sets up your NEAR wallet and you’re playing, effectively, a Web3 game but as a Web2 user.”

Getting gamers to board the Web3 train
At the forefront of Web3 gaming is NEAR’s Human Guild. Created in early 2021 by Sasha Hudzilin and Vlad Grichina, both early builders on NEAR, their approach is simple: easy onboarding and gamers earning by doing what they love. 

“The mission is to help people earn in crypto and join the online economy,” says Hudzilin. 

Human Guild also helps game designers develop their ideas, launch on mainnet, improve their products, and generally expand an already strong, supportive community of game developers. This makes Human Guild a vital resource within the NEAR ecosystem. 

“[We] provide support starting with the concept of the game, designing economic upside for the community to get involved, DAO creation, bootstrap community engagement, consider foundries, share initial MVP with the community, and involve influencers,” says Hudzilin. 

“We know Web3 can be difficult to navigate,” he adds. “So, we want to make sure people are not discouraged and can get the best out of this space.”

Indie versus AAA game studios in Web3 
Currently the most popular Web3 games feature around 200,000 active wallets, says Hudzilin, and there are only a few of them. By comparison, Web2 mobile games can have over 100 million users, and in some cases one billion users. Truly, these early days demand that designers think differently about what games are and what they can be. 

Perhaps because of Web3 games’ relatively low numbers, most of the creativity in game development comes from smaller indie studios. Not unlike the music, film, or book publishing industries, bigger budget games from AAA studios tend to be more formulaic (and less likely to take risks). This makes some sense, as AAA studios are often more pressed to turn a profit and follow previously successful models. However, Web3’s low market saturation does have its advantages. 

“If you do launch, you’re almost bound to succeed,” says Hudzilin, who notes the bar for success is about 10k users giving the game a shot. “Especially in an ecosystem like NEAR where very few things have gone live so far.”

Human Guild is starting to focus more on smaller indie game developers, as they can deliver on smaller budgets with more creative spark. The idea is that this creativity will carry over into the future of Web3 gaming. Crypto games are labors of love and passion projects. Some developers even sacrifice career stability for their projects. 

“Sometimes they live below the poverty line, which is kind of crazy because they’re very talented developers,” says Hudzilin. “And so we work with some of them.”

While most pure Web3 games don’t have mass market appeal, many companies are trying hard to make that happen. PlayEmber, for instance, is all about mass market appeal with their “hyper casual” gaming experiences that look very much like Web2 mobile games. With Ember Coin, playEmber offers a “play and earn” model where gamers don’t even need to think about earning cryptocurrency. Their goal is ambitious: to onboard a million new crypto wallets within a year once their games are live on EmberCoin. 

Bridges to the physical world 
There is also a real hunger to see games interfacing with the physical world. Endlesss, a live collaborative music creation platform inspired by game mechanics, recently showcased one possibility at NFT.NYC: a MIDI-enabled arcade game. Although arcades are niche, this experience opened a door to other Web3 physical integrations and in-person social interactions.

For playEmber’s Jon Hook, the Web3 bridge to the physical world could feature partnerships with big brands for retail experiences. 

“Imagine partnering with Nike: you’re playing a game and hidden within the game are magic loot boxes,” he muses. “When you find one, it actually unlocks sneakers. It’s a little NFT so that when you go into the Nike store, you redeem it. It’s kind of like gamifying retail.”

This is, of course, in addition to designing and buying NFT avatars and using them across a gaming or Web3 ecosystem. Just like in the physical world, Furneaux envisions an experience where  “you change moods, you change styles, you change clothes, so why shouldn’t you be able to change your NFT to reflect that too?”

NFTs are also useful for re-engagement. Jon Werthen Jr. at ARterraLabs envisions players earning in-game NFTs, then using them as an entry fee for gaming tournaments or a token to redeem real-world prizes. 

A tapestry of visionaries
One thing that Web3 gaming has going for it is the abundance of visionaries. No doubt a crucial ingredient for crypto gaming’s future.

Human Guild’s Vlad Grichina, for instance, imagines a world where massive multiplayer games keep running forever on the blockchain—especially games from the 2000s and 2010s that disappeared because server costs were just too high for game studios. How? A separate group of validators would essentially run that part of the blockchain.

“As long as a community is interested in this kind of game, it should continue,” Hudzilin says. 

Futuristic possibilities aside, currently Human Guild is gearing up for NEARCON where the NEARCON Gaming Lounge will have up to 20 playable versions of games. This is as much about research as it is entertainment, as the Human Guild will use NEARCON metrics to measure things like retention. 

Despite the visionary nature of many Web3 game developers, there is little certainty about what it will look like in the future. Will personal computers still dominate Web3 games? Can mobile developers break past gatekeepers like Apple’s App Store? Will consoles jump aboard? What about virtual reality? It is likely to be some combination of all of these, but only time will tell. 

It’s likely that Web3 game developers, on NEAR’s carbon neutral protocol or others like it, will redefine what is possible. This is something that current and future gamers alike can look forward to.
Near at ETHDenver Hackathon Bounty Winners
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 13, 2023
For the 2023 edition of ETHDenver, the Near ecosystem offered a number of bounties across a range of Web3 verticals, including DeFi, Content, Search, Social Media, Interoperability, Smart Contract History, and more. There were 3 main prize pools from Aurora, Proximity, and Developer Governance (DevGov). 

Congratulations to all Near winners. who received over 30k in USDC! Let’s have a look at the winning projects of the Near at ETHDenver bounties. 

Aurora Bounty Winners
Open Aurora Bounty
Winner – StakingPool Aurora

Implements a liquid staking protocol around Aurora Plus staking. Users will deposit AURORA and receive a share in $stAUR tokens, which distributes the APY rewards. $stAUR could be immediately converted with a fee or wait for a delayed unstake.

Runner Up – Geni

AI-powered specifications generator of security tests for smart contracts.

Runner Up – Demeter

A lending platform that offers yield advancements, i.e., self-paying loans. Borrowers’ collateral is invested in RWA protocols, and the yield pays off debt.

Proximity Bounty Winners
Deploy a Decentralized Frontend Component
Winner – BosWrap 

BosWrap used the Near Blockchain Operating System to build a decentralized widget for wrapping/unwrapping ETH.

Runner Up – ABI BOS Widget 

A solidity explorer widget that allow users to explore any smart contract for a given ABI. You can get ABI from Etherscan website.

Runner Up – Bossed Up

A project focusing on Ethereum frontends, Blockchain Operating System improvements, and NEAR Social widgets that interact with NEAR contracts.

Runner Up – Atmosph3re

A dApp for reducing the homeless crisis in the United States by giving those living on the streets a decentralized identity, mentoring and community support, and funds for spending on their basic needs to help them thrive. 

Runner Up – EthDenver2023UWCA

A dApp on NeaR’s new frontend with BOS.GG. Integrates with Rocketpool to offer quick swaps on Ethereum.

DevGov Bounty Winners
Extensive Developer Profile Widget
Winner – Developer Profile

A recreation of Github profile for NEAR social developers in the Blockchain Operating System. 

Fuzzy Search Widget / Promoted Posts Banner Widget / Top Posts Widget  / Post History with Diff Widget
Winner – Near.Social DevGovGigs Improvements 

A new Developer Governance Gigs interaction experience for Near.Social. Features: 1) Fuzzy Searching that can handle typos, 2) Promote posts and Promoted Post viewer, 3) Hottest Posts viewer, and 4), Post editing history viewer.

Near.Social Bots Coded in Javascript
Winner – JS Bot Widget

Verifiable RPC Replies
Winner – Near Verifiable RPC Endpoints for Viewing Access Keys

Adds proof generation support to RPC read access key endpoints on the NEAR protocol to help pave the road for light client support. 


Taco Labs and NEAR Foundation to Give Shopify Retailers Next-Gen Customer Loyalty Programs
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 5, 2023
E-commerce is entering a new era of customer loyalty as Taco Labs and NEAR Foundation join forces to revolutionize the way 5.6 million Shopify retailers engage and retain customers. This innovative partnership fosters personalized loyalty experiences that deepen connections between brands and consumers, transcending traditional loyalty program limitations.

By merging Taco Labs’ inventive platform with NEAR’s speedy, carbon-neutral blockchain, Shopify retailers can develop captivating loyalty programs while overcoming Web3 adoption challenges, such as slow transactions and high fees. The alliance paves the way for engaging multiplayer experiences, token-gated access, and exclusive benefits that transform customer retention and brand affinity.In this new loyalty landscape, both brands and consumers stand to benefit from this groundbreaking collaboration.

Taco Labs and NEAR: Loyalty reinvention unwrapped
As e-commerce continues to evolve, customer loyalty programs must adapt to remain relevant and effective. Traditional loyalty programs often struggle to build meaningful connections with customers, resulting in missed opportunities for improved retention and brand loyalty. Taco Labs and NEAR Foundation have partnered to address this issue, offering groundbreaking solutions to Shopify retailers. 

The Starbucks case study illustrates how these solutions can foster unique and engaging loyalty experiences. With its recently unveiled Odyssey initiative, Starbucks created a Web3 loyalty program centered on gamification and real-life participation. Customers engage in challenges — like trying new menu items — to earn digital collectible stamps (NFTs). These stamps can be traded, and provide access to exclusive perks like limited-edition token-gated products, virtual classes, and trips to Starbucks roasteries or coffee farms.

Similar to Starbucks, Taco Labs is harnessing Web3 to create innovative and captivating customer experiences and connections. The Taco App is doing this through quest gamification, membership tiers, reward points, and referral programs. These experiences are delivered swiftly, seamlessly, and at scale using the NEAR Protocol.

Taco Labs and NEAR Foundation will further facilitate innovative loyalty approaches, incentivizing brand-valuable behavior, enhancing customer engagement, and transforming the e-commerce loyalty landscape.

Streamlining loyalty with no-code solutions
Taco Labs’ comprehensive platform addresses both immediate business needs and fosters long-term growth. It enables brands to scale their loyalty programs without incurring high costs and adapts to various business models, making the platform suitable for diverse industries and market segments.

A key strength of Taco Labs is its seamless integration with existing systems, connecting easily with popular e-commerce platforms like Shopify and in-store Point of Sale (POS) systems. This cross-channel integration ensures a cohesive and immersive customer experience across online and offline touchpoints.

Taco’s no-code approach streamlines the process for brands, marketers, and agencies. The end-to-end workflow doesn’t require specialized technical knowledge or developers, allowing businesses to focus on building meaningful connections with customers.

In the Web3 world, privacy and data security are crucial. Taco addresses this by giving brands control over customer data, which is stored on a decentralized, transparent network. This ensures security and privacy while enabling brands to leverage valuable information for decision-making.

Combining Web3 and the user-friendly NEAR Protocol, Taco Labs revolutionizes customer loyalty programs. Taco’s scalable, adaptable, and secure features enable businesses to create engaging experiences that retain customers and foster lasting connections, differentiating loyalty programs in a competitive market.

Spicing up Shopify loyalty
Taco Labs and NEAR Foundation will provide innovative solutions for Shopify retailers to enhance customer loyalty programs. By using Web3 technology, businesses can launch exclusive, early-access products quickly. Integration with Shopify delivers Web3 benefits while preserving Web2’s convenience and user experience.

With Nike’s successful CryptoKicks NFT campaign as another example, Taco Labs enables Shopify retailers to create similar experiences. Businesses can launch tiered NFTs to crowdfund new product lines, offering lifelong perks to early supporters, like monthly loyalty tokens for exclusive products and offers. This encourages early adoption and strengthens customer relationships.

Taco Labs’ platform promotes brand-valuable behavior by allowing customers to buy, sell, and gift the NFTs they’ve received. This generates a dynamic ecosystem of gifting and trading, attracting new customers without costly marketing. The platform’s blockchain foundation enables comprehensive data analytics, providing customer insights while respecting privacy.

A key advantage of Taco Labs and NEAR Foundation’s collaboration is user control over data. Customers can choose to share information or maintain privacy, fostering trust and a positive experience. With data stored on a public blockchain, no third party can revoke access, ensuring businesses retain full control over customer relationships.

Taco Labs and NEAR offer Shopify retailers a powerful, flexible solution to boost customer loyalty and engagement by combining Web3 and Web 2 features. This partnership presents an excellent growth opportunity for businesses in the rapidly evolving digital landscape.

The collaboration ushers in a new era of customer loyalty, empowering Shopify retailers to harness Web3 capabilities. By seamlessly integrating blockchain technology with existing platforms, businesses can create tailored, engaging experiences fostering lasting customer connections.

From token-gated products to comprehensive analytics, this partnership enables unique, sustainable loyalty programs, blending the strengths of Web3 and Web2 technologies. As the future of customer engagement unfolds, Taco Labs and the NEAR ecosystem are at the forefront.
Send NEAR to Anyone with NEAR Drops
CASE STUDIES
July 1, 2020
As important as scalability is (just take a look at ETH Gas Station to see how important), there is more to a quality user experience than transactions-per-second.

We want NEAR to be easy to use for both developers and end users: user accounts have human readable names, developers can pay for fees on behalf of their users, and smart contracts can be built with popular programming languages.

And now, users and apps can send NEAR to anyone, whether they have a NEAR account or not.

 A Better Way to Onboard Users
Introducing NEAR Drops: a feature that makes onboarding users to NEAR much simpler.

In essence, a NEAR drop lets you send a link to whoever you want with a certain amount of $NEAR attached to it. This allows:

App developers to onboard users and pay for their NEAR account
Users to send $NEAR to their friends, whether they have an account or not
For app developers, NEAR Drops substantially improve the user onboarding process. Simply send new users a NEAR Drop referral link, they’ll be redirected to the NEAR Wallet’s account creation page, and they can create an account called [user].near. That’s it. They now have a NEAR account.

On NEAR, a user account is similar to a smart contract account on Ethereum, plus an Ethereum Name Service (ENS) name. This means that users get a readable account name and advanced key management, but it also means that creating a user account requires some $NEAR. With NEAR Drops, users can create an account without needing to have any $NEAR themselves.

How NEAR Drops Work 
There are two main functions in the NEAR Drop contract: send and create_account_and_claim. The send function is called to initiate the NEAR drop, and requires a $NEAR deposit, which will pay for the account creation costs and be transferred to the end recipient. The function takes the public key of a public/private keypair as an argument, adds the key to the NEAR Drop contract as an authorized access key, and records the $NEAR deposit as owned by the public key.

Next, the developer sends the private key to the end user, generally in the form of a referral link. The user will go through the NEAR Wallet onboarding process and choose an account name. In the Wallet, a new public/private keypair is generated, and the Wallet calls the create_account_and_claim function with the user’s selected account name. This transaction is signed by the private key received in the link from the previous step, as only this key is authorized to call the NEAR Drop contract and retrieve the deposited $NEAR.

In turn, create_account_and_claim will recover the public key from the signature, create an account with the chosen account name, add the new public key (of which the private key is only known by the recipient) as the full access key for the new account, fund it with the $NEAR (less transaction fees), and remove the original public key as an access key on the contract.

And Voila! The user now has a non-custodial, funded NEAR account.

Try it Out
You can try NEAR Drops out for yourself here: https://near-drop-mainnet.onrender.com/

After logging in:

Select “Create New NEAR Drop”.
Enter the amount of NEAR you’d like to add to the link (try 50)
Authorize the transaction
Copy the link, and send it to a friend! (Or open it yourself)
If you want to dive even deeper into the technical details, the code for NEAR drops is publicly available in the near-linkdrop repository (from line 48).We believe that NEAR drops significantly reduces the barriers of entry to the NEAR platform and are excited to see our community start using it!
NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for February
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 28, 2023
As February draws to a close, NEAR Foundation wanted to share some of the best news headlines from the Near ecosystem and community. 

Let’s take a look at some of the biggest stories from NEAR in February. 

NEAR partners with NYU for Web3 learning workshop
NEAR attracted over 135 pieces of global coverage this month. One of the popular announcements was NEAR’s partnership with New York University’s School of Professional Studies, featuring a Web3 learning workshop. 

Published by Cointelegraph and other top-tier press, this partnership will expose students, faculty, and commercial partners to the underlying technology powering the Web3 industry. The course will focus on blockchain’s intersection with the sporting industry, exposing those involved to hands-on experience taught by Michael Kelly, a co-founder of Open Forest Protocol, and an early builder in the NEAR Ecosystem.

Former NBA player Baron Davis builds platform for photographers on NEAR
Two-time NBA All-Star Baron Davis announced his plan to transform the image and video rights market, utilizing NEAR’s extensive NFT infrastructure to create a purpose-built platform for photographers. 

In an interview with Decrypt, Davis revealed that his startup SliC Images is teaming up with Mintbase with a $250k grant to build a platform where photographers will have ownership of their channels, replacing long-term predatory corporate deals with a fairer platform facilitating opportunities for all photographers. 

Also featured in Tech Funding News and across the industry press, the announcement has excited the Web3 community around the world. Allowing users to take a photo, add a permanent license, auction it off, and stick it on a blog within five minutes, SliC images are aiming to have a prototype of the platform ready for ETH Denver.

NEAR Foundation and Supermoon announce NEAR House 
As the NEAR community prepares for ETHDenver, and especially NEAR Day, Near Foundation announced Near House in collaboration with Supermoon. 

As covered in the Bitcoin Insider, the unforgettable 8-day experience will see 20 builders and founders from the NEAR ecosystem set up camp in downtown Denver and engage in team-building activities and enthusiastic discussions about NEAR Protocol. NEAR House will also include a curated ETH Denver agenda, enabling the innovators to maximize their experience at the event.

Marieke Flament on more women in Web3
Fast Company spoke with Marieke Flament about the importance of greater participation from women in MENA. The crucial nature of diversity of thought in the boardroom cannot be understated, particularly in high-growth industries like Web3.

In the interview, Marieke outlines that human biases are unavoidable components of all our decision-making. So, ensuring that the group making the decisions is as diverse as possible is a key mission when creating the future on the blockchain.

Calimero amongst 10 Web3 startups to watch in 2023
Following their recent funding announcement, Calimero Network was featured in Tech Funding News’ 10 Web3 startups to watch out for in 2023. The piece covered the exciting startup’s ambition to assist Web2 companies in scaling up their offerings by utilizing the NEAR blockchain. 

Calimero’s founders Sandi and Mario are building the first private sharding infrastructure on the NEAR Protocol, enabling more privacy for companies storing data on blockchains.

NEAR partners with Recur
Towards the end of February, Business Insider covered NEAR’s latest step in enhancing interoperability and accessibility in Web3. Partnering with Recur, a project focused on improving the blockchain-building experience, the NEAR ecosystem will have access to an enterprise-grade Web3 software suite. 

The exciting partnership will make Web3 more accessible for everyone, empowering brands and fans to innovate and explore new digital experiences.

NEAR joins Figment-powered Ledger Live
Wrapping up a busy month of activity, NEAR Foundation announced that NEAR has joined Figment-powered Ledger Live, an all-in-one digital asset management app secured by Ledger’s industry-leading hardware wallets. As covered by the Crypto Reporter, more of the Web3 community will now be able to enjoy the benefits of self-custody whilst helping to secure the NEAR Protocol by staking their tokens. 

That’s all for February. If NEAR Foundation missed anything or you would like to share anything for next month’s roundup, please get in touch!
USDC Launches Natively on the NEAR Protocol
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 14, 2023
USDC, the open-source, permissionless protocol and stablecoin that enables any app to send and store digital dollars, is now native on the NEAR blockchain. 

The announcement opens the door for businesses built on NEAR to easily withdraw NEAR USDC and send it on-chain in seconds. Users can also swap USDC natively from Ethereum to NEAR and back — without incurring costs or delays from third-party bridges. MyNearWallet, Ledger, and wallet.near.org have all confirmed support allowing a user to hold USDC and interact with dapps on the B.O.S. Other wallets will follow over the coming days.

Before this, USDC was only available on NEAR as a bridged form of USDC, known as USDC.e from Ethereum. This announcement means users get all the benefits of a native stablecoin, empowering developers to integrate stablecoin payments flows into their Javascript and  Rust-based decentralized applications. 

This will unlock a new wave of accessibility for Web2 builders moving into Web3. It will also serve a vital role in NEAR’s mission of Web3 mass adoption, while helping developers build without limits on an open web.

Native versus Bridged
Circle brings USDC natively to new blockchain networks to empower developers to build on a stable foundation they can trust. Native USDC is officially issued by Circle and is always redeemable 1:1 for US dollars.

In the case of NEAR, historically USDC was only available as a bridged version of USDC from Ethereum. USDC.e is not issued by Circle and is not compatible with Circle Account or Circle APIs. This brings a NEAR native version of USDC on chain. 

To facilitate this shift, the NEAR Foundation will be working with ecosystem partners to help facilitate the migration of liquidity from bridged USDC to native USDC.

Exchanges, digital wallets, institutional traders, and developers can now all access NEAR USDC via the Circle Account and Circle APIs. This unlocks a whole range of use cases including:  

Making low cost payments and remittances globally in seconds.
24/7 trading, borrowing, and lending on apps like Burrow, Orderly, and Ref Finance.
Enable users to hold savings in digital dollars without needing a traditional bank account. 
Allow for enhanced cross-chain interoperability with other blockchains via NEAR’s extensive range of bridges. 
In the DeFi realm, Ref Finance will also launch its stable 4-pool on September 14 onwards. Trisolaris, Burrow, Orderly, VEAX and others are all planning on bringing USDC to its platforms within the coming weeks.

USDC.e will still be supported by the ecosystem during the transition.

Getting started with USDC 
If you’re a business or project working on NEAR, you can readily access on/off-ramps for converting fiat currency to NEAR USDC by applying for a Circle Account.

If you’re new to NEAR, you can find free resources for building apps, deploying smart contracts, creating B.O.S components, and more on the DevRel resources page. 

For developers looking for documentation on building with USDC, check out Circle’s developer docs. 
Update on Near Decentralized Funding, DAOs, and Accelerator
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 24, 2023
Hello Nearians,

We are more than halfway through the first quarter of 2023 and wanted to share a quick update on the progress NEAR Foundation has made on community funding and accelerator strategies.

First, if you are a project building on NEAR or interested in building on NEAR and need some immediate support, please fill out this Project Support Form. NEAR Foundation will connect you with the appropriate person or organization who can assist. 

Decentralizing Funding
Important changes in the grant program were announced at the start of January, highlighting the Foundation’s goal for a more decentralized funding process by handing over decision making to community DAOs. What follows is the status of the initial DAOs. 

MarketingDAO is actively reviewing proposals related to amplification and marketing via the MarketingDAO forum channel. At the moment, the core focus of applications is around content and social media, with an exciting ETHDenver bounties initiative having just recently been announced.
What is the Marketing DAO
How to submit a proposal
Marketing DAO Guidelines  
DevGov is ramping up and reviewing proposals supporting technical ecosystem projects via their NEAR.social gig board.
What is the Developer Governance DAO
How to submit a proposal
Creatives DAO is on track for accepting proposals for funding before the end of March.
What is the Creatives DAO
How to submit a proposal
Creatives DAO Guidelines
NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) is a grassroots movement by the NEAR Community to decentralize. NDC V0 Governance is coming soon! The initial milestone is for the Community Treasury to come online, and it is actively being finalized. V0 focuses on funding the GrassrootsDAOs listed above: Marketing, Developer, and Creatives.
A beginner’s guide to V0 of the NDC governance structure
What is the NDC? 
How to Get Involved:
Join the NDC movement on Telegram:
Join the Movement
Start a conversation
Join or form a Workgroup to contribute to governance and decentralization on NEAR 
The Accelerator
From the accelerator side, NEAR Foundation’s past experience with the grants program showed us that founders and teams are in need of a variety of support in order to be successful and take their project to the next level. 

To that end, the Foundation’s strategy consists of three elements: 

We are building a product on NEAR Discovery that will allow founders to connect with a range of contributors (e.g., investors, subject matter experts in areas like legal and finance) who can support them in their journey. We are launching an MVP in early March.
If you are a founder, investor, mentor, or subject matter expert interested in being a beta tester, please fill out this form. 
If you are a founder interested in participating in paid user research, please fill out this form.
We recently made an open call to partner with accelerator programs that can help us fast track support needs for projects. We will be releasing additional open calls in the coming weeks as we continue building out the support network available for founders. These open calls will be for:
Engineering support resources
Talent / Recruitment platforms and services
Legal platforms and services
Back office accounting platforms and services
Marketing services
Product management services
We are continuously developing and identifying learning content and tooling that are most helpful for early stage founders (e.g., accounting software geared towards Web3 teams, Go To Market exemplars, etc.). These resources will be available within the product.
Take 1 minute to help us pick a name for the Accelerator here (survey closes on March 1, 2023)!

If you have any questions on decentralized funding, the DAOs, and Accelerator program, please reach out to the Community Team on Telegram, Discord, and other social media channels used by the NEAR community. 

And again, if your project is building on NEAR or interested in doing so and you are in need of some immediate support, fill out this Project Support Form. NEAR Foundation will connect you with the appropriate person or organization who can assist. 
NEAR in February: ETHDenver, Pagoda Launch, and More
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 1, 2022
The NEAR community did a lot in February: events, hackathons, launches, and even the Lunar New Year. If you blinked, you might have missed a number of exciting happenings within the NEAR community and throughout the ecosystem. 

So let’s take a look back at all of the activity across NEAR’s global nodes.

A NEAR Hóngbāo for the Lunar New Year
February kicked off in a celebratory mood with the Lunar New Year. On the 1st, many East and Southeast Asian countries celebrated a new year. On this day each year people exchange “hóngbāo”—red envelopes that contain money, given as gifts of good luck for important social occasions.  

This tradition has taken on a slightly new form in the digital era, with people in many Asian countries sending digital hóngbāo on messaging apps like Weibo or through online games. 

To take part in the Lunar New Year, and to show how easy it is to get into crypto, open a NEAR Wallet, and use NEAR-based apps, the NEAR Foundation offered celebratory drops. People could collect their hóngbāo at hongbao.nearpages.wpengine.com, then share it with friends and family to celebrate the year of the tiger. 

MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon Extended by Popular Demand
On December 22, NEAR Foundation announced the second edition of the MetaBUILD hackathon series, which features $1 million in prize money up for grabs from 35 sponsor challenges. Originally scheduled to end on February 10, NEAR Foundation extended MetaBUILD to February 2 to meet popular demand as well as to coincide with ETHDenver’s closing ceremony. 

NEAR Foundation extended MetaBUILD 2 again to March 8, to accommodate its growth from 300 participants at launch to nearly 4,000. This will give the sponsors and community the necessary time to judge the projects that came in before and during ETHDenver.

One of the most notable MetaBUILD 2 challenges is the privacy-preserving browser Brave’s bounty of $20,000 in BAT. The Brave team challenged MetaBUILD (and ETHDenver) hackers to create new methods of issuing game skins for the browser’s simple but fun Dino game. 

The NEAR community holds MetaBUILD hackathons for several reasons. The first is to introduce Web3 developers and non-blockchain users to the NEAR platform. On top of that, MetaBUILD is also a great opportunity to showcase how easy it is to build on NEAR’s hassle-free network, take advantage of its super fast transaction speeds, its global fiat on/off ramps, all while being sustainable, and carbon neutral. 

The NEAR Community at ETHDenver 2022
NEAR went to ETHDenver 2022. Why? Because the community believes in and is working toward a collaborative, decentralized, multi-chain ecosystem of Open Web and Metaverse platforms. Projects like Aurora and Rainbow Bridge, to take just two examples, are helping build simple and secure bridges between NEAR and Ethererum, which will go a long way in realizing a truly global network of open-source Web3 projects. 

For more on the NEAR Community’s talks, panels, and workshops, check out the NEAR at ETHDenver 2022 Highlights, and start learning to build at NEAR Education. 

Pagoda Launches First-Ever Web3 Startup Platform
At the ETHDenver opening ceremony, NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin announced the launch of Pagoda, the first-ever Web3 startup platform. Pagoda gives developers all the tools they need to build, create, and maintain Web3 applications on the NEAR blockchain, though it can also be used by dapps that use Aurora and Rainbow Bridge to connect NEAR and Ethereum. 

To hear Illia’s Pagoda announcement in its entirety, check out the Twitter Spaces recording. And be sure to check out Illia’s deep dive into Pagoda and Developer Console in the video below. 


NEAR Partners with Elliptic to Enhance On-Chain Security
Just after ETHDenver, NEAR Foundation announced a new partnership with Elliptic, the blockchain analytics and security company. What does this mean for the NEAR community? Both the NEAR blockchain and its native token $NEAR will have access to Elliptic’s class-leading blockchain analytics and financial crime monitoring services, which will help keep their dapps and users safe, and pave the way for mass adoption of Web3. 

“NEAR’s mission is to help onboard billions of users into Web3,” says NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament. “We can’t do that unless we can create a safe and secure environment for people to explore this new world. Partnering with projects like Elliptic helps us realize this goal faster.”

For more details on the collaboration, read the NEAR x Elliptic partnership announcement. 

Looking Forward into March
The NEAR community has a lot of really exciting things in the works for March and beyond, from new dapps to events and more. 

Stay tuned to the latest NEAR news by joining the community accounts below. 


First Fan-Owned Team Launches on NEAR
COMMUNITY
November 10, 2022
Sports team ownership is on the verge of a watershed moment, and it’s happening on NEAR. Bernoulli I Locke’s member-based community is using NEAR’s Web3 technology to launch a fan-owned racing team in the SailGP international sailboat racing competition. 

To pull this fan-owned team off, Bernouilli I Locke will use a DAO structure built on the NEAR Protocol. Launching Bermuda and across the Caribbean, this new, DAO-powered team will create new opportunities for fan engagement and sports ownership alike. 

The DAO-owned team hopes to be the tenth squad in the SailGP league. The team is expected to debut in Season 4, which will comprise 14 events at iconic destinations around the globe. Season 4 kicks off June 17-18, 2023 with the United States Sail Grand Prix | Chicago at Navy Pier, and includes one event held at the team base in Bermuda in May 2024.

How the DAO will power the fan-owned team
A Distributed Autonomous Organization, commonly known as a “DAO”, is a blockchain-based  organization with governance managed transparently by its community. Fans interested in owning a part of the SailGP team will be able to purchase tokens that provide governance to the DAO—and with it, the right to vote on important team matters. 

The sports team’s owners will be able to vote on decisions like team names, new flag design representing overall territory, and even team athlete selection. Fan owners will also be able to help make decisions on boat livery, fan benefits and access, sponsorship, management, team business decisions, and more. 

“Last month we shared that we had updated our SailGP Participation Agreement to allow a DAO owned team to join the league and now we are very excited to see David Palmer and his team of founders at Bernoulli | Locke forming a team under these amended rules,” said SailGP CEO and Co-founder Russell Coutts. “David and his team have a unique marketing and operational background building global membership-based communities – demonstrating the unique expertise required to launch and assist in operating a fan owned team facilitated by a DAO.”

“Professional sport is about building a passionate fanbase, and as a tech-forward global league SailGP has leaned into Web3 to develop the future of fandom,” Coutts continued. 

“We look at the fan owned team as the ultimate implementation of a loyalty program, and this new Caribbean and Bermuda team will  redefine the fan experience and team ownership model. It is a testament to the power of our relationship with NEAR hat a decentralized team can be created to ultimately provide control of a team to a passionate community of fans.”

How to join the historic fan-owned team
Fans can take the first step in getting  involved in the new DAO team by heading over to FanVest.io to signal initial interest. The opportunity to participate is expected to be available to a limited number of individuals and institutions meeting financial and other applicable requirements. (See Legal Disclosure/Disclaimer below.) 

Fans will also be able to own a seasonal membership pass through the purchase and holding of an NFT. This NFT provides season pass holders access to community as well as governance but not equity. 

“With our partners, we are delighted to bring a new and exciting level of engagement and participation for sports team owners and fans, and add a new participant in SailGP,” said David Palmer, Bernoulli | Locke Founder and CEO. “Our goal is to have a vibrant community of owners and fans jointly sharing the incredible journey of establishing and operating a global racing team.”

“Using the NEAR Protocol and the unique structure of the DAO we have established, we believe that we can achieve our goals with transparency and legal compliance, enabling the participation of an international community sharing a common sports interest and passion,” he added.  “We look forward to seeing everyone on the water at the first race next season!”

“This historic partnership elevates fandom to a completely new level and creates a blueprint for building a successful use case for Web3,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation.  “Launching this fan owned team breaks down the hierarchy of sport, giving enthusiastic spectators the chance to play an active role in shaping the future of competitive sailing by democratizing access to the sport and allowing fans to collectively own and manage a team like never before.” 

For further details, please visit FanVest.io

LEGAL DISCLOSURE/DISCLAIMER 

The information contained in this press release is not directed at nor intended for use by any investors or prospective investors, and may not under any circumstances be relied upon when making a decision to invest in any equity tokens offered for sale by the DAO. An offering to invest in equity tokens of the DAO will be made only to accredited investors in accordance with U.S. Securities and Regulations by a private placement memorandum or equivalent information, subscription agreement, and other relevant documentation which should be read in their entirety. Any ultimate offering may be withdrawn or revoked, without obligation or commitment of any kind, at any time before notice of acceptance given. An indication of interest involves no obligation or commitment of any kind.

Information in this release is not financial/investment advice.
NEAR Foundation’s Response to the SEC’s Recent Coinbase Complaint
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 6, 2023
We are aware of the news that the most recent SEC complaint against Coinbase, published today, alleges the NEAR token (along with many other crypto assets) is a crypto asset that is being offered and sold as an investment contract, and thus as a security (see the full complaint here). 

This SEC enforcement action is not against the NEAR Foundation (the “Foundation”) (or any other participant in the NEAR ecosystem). In any event, the Foundation disagrees with (and is surprised by) the inclusion of the NEAR token in the complaint, and we believe the Foundation has not violated any applicable US securities laws. 

The Foundation is regulated in Switzerland and the NEAR token has been characterized as a payment token (and not as a security) under Swiss law.

Over the last few months, given the increased regulatory scrutiny and hostility in the US, we have continued to strengthen our team and surround ourselves with the best advisors in the industry, and we will continue to do so. 

Keeping our ecosystem safe has always been – and will remain – at the forefront of what we do. 

We understand this might feel unsettling, however we are concerned but confident and the Foundation leadership and legal team are prepared for this development. 

The best thing we can all be doing is to continue focusing on building great products, bringing delightful user experiences, and onboarding millions into web3. In other words, business as usual.
ICC Launches ‘Captain’s Call’ Game on NEAR to Level Up Cricket Fandom During World Cup
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 26, 2023
Cricket fans are getting a Web3-powered path to engaging with their favorite international sport. NEAR Foundation and the  International Cricket Council (ICC), the global governing body of cricket, just teamed up  to explore different ways of getting fans closer to their favorite teams and players. 

This ICC and NEAR partnership arrives just as the cricket world is watching the Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023. The partnership’s first cricket fan experience, the Captain’s Call gaming app, taps into the NEAR Protocol’s infinite scalability. 

Watch an animated primer below on the gameplay in Captain’s Call.

Level up cricket fandom with Captain’s Call game
In Captain’s Call, ICC’s first app on the NEAR blockchain, cricket fans compete against each other for the chance of winning prizes. Developed by Wincast, Captain’s Call allows fans to strategize around bowling, batting, and fielding actions during live cricket matches.

To play, fans simply navigate to the ICC’s mobile apps or website, click on the Match Centre for the game they intend to watch, and submit their predictions before the match begins. Players then compete for a chance to win prizes, merchandise, and more. 

Beyond Captain’s Call
With NEAR and ICC, Web3 and and sports are on a path of continual innovation. A fan passport is currently in early discussions, which would enable fans to record their actions and memories in a tamper proof way, both on and off chain. Captain’s Call will serve as a template in creating other games that fuses other Web2 and Web3 worlds. 

All of these sporting innovations are possible thanks to the Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S). With its full stack of Web3 tools and easy onboarding, partners like the ICC and others can take advantage of the world’s most highly scalable, community-driven, and secure blockchains that deliver proven, best-in-class performance that can support any kind of Web3 strategy. 
A Time for Conviction
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 1, 2022
It’s a tough time to be in Web3 at the moment: war in Europe, crippling inflation, and an increasingly pessimistic outlook over the growth of the global economy. That’s led to a steep contraction of the Web3 ecosystem, both in users and available capital. 

But for us at the NEAR Foundation, this moment of great duress is an opportunity to focus our efforts on what we believe is the long term future of this industry. It’s time for conviction.

Web3 and NEAR are both in their early stages, and as such, there are still things that need long-term commitment both in time and resources in order to deliver the promise of decentralized technology. 

At its highest level, we believe the focus of the ecosystem should be on bringing more users to Web3, continuing to build out key infrastructure, and demonstrating why NEAR is the best solution for developers, founders and creatives. 

A Commitment to the future 
NEAR is the best layer one technology platform. Bar none. Ethereum paved the way for companies to build and create their own worlds on top of a blockchain. But NEAR’s sharded design allows millions of people to use this technology without skipping a beat.

NEAR’s focus on being simple to use, easy to build on, and fast to access funding and talent, means NEAR is primed to become the de facto choice for companies looking to onboard the next billion users to Web3. 

With the launch of SWEAT, we demonstrated NEAR’s capability of bringing millions of users on chain without outages. But that’s just half the challenge. NEAR is a network for a billion users, but onboarding a billion users requires thousands or millions of applications to create an immersive, inclusive Web3 world.  

We are just at the beginning of this journey to making mass adoption happen and as a result, there are lots of views on how we might get there and what steps need to be taken. 

At present, the Web3 pie is small. There are fewer than 20,000 developers working consistently across the Web3 space. In Web2, meanwhile, there are more than 20 million Javascript developers worldwide – NEAR has built a Javascript SDK for any Web2 developer curious about Web3. 

In terms of users, there are believed to be around 70 million crypto wallet users regularly interacting with a blockchain. There are more than 5 billion internet users who regularly use the internet. NEAR has the easiest onboarding in Web3 thanks to native account abstraction, a key feature to enable onboarding of millions of users. 

For us at the Foundation, our goal and strategy is clear: attract the Web2 world to build and use Web3. This is going to take time to do, but firmly paves the way to enable our vision of 1 billion users onboarded into Web3 in 5 years. 

The NEAR ecosystem has the talent, the technology and the funding to ensure it can achieve these goals. We plan to continue working on making NEAR the best place for Web2 devs and founders, by introducing more resources for builders, new education initiatives, and more coming soon.

So yes, we are in a tough market. And it’s time for conviction. The next wave of innovation will be a fight for mass adoption. NEAR is the best platform for end-user applications on Web3. NEAR is where mass adoption will happen.
Update on the NEAR Wallet Transition
COMMUNITY
August 16, 2022
On July 29th, NEAR Foundation announced that wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com would be transforming into a new multi-wallet portal, and that the NEAR Wallet team is spinning out to become its own entity. This is part of the NEAR Foundation’s continued mission to foster a rich and vibrant ecosystem that can build and maintain its core components. 

Originally, the plan was to begin transitioning wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com into the multi-wallet portal starting August 17th. But, based on community feedback following the July 29th wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com transition announcement, the MyNearWallet team, Pagoda, and NEAR Foundation realized a rethink was needed to ensure the smoothest user experience possible. 

This transition is incredibly important for the NEAR ecosystem and community, allowing NEAR to further decentralize, enhance security, and ultimately give users more wallet options. 

With that in mind, Pagoda will be gathering feedback from the community over the next few months and deciding on a more appropriate path forward. The Foundation believes this is the right move for the NEAR ecosystem. 

There will be no changes on the wallet.nearpages.wpengine.com front until that point. As things progress, the NEAR Foundation will keep you, the NEAR community, in the loop with any and all future announcements related to the wallet transition process. 

Stay tuned for more updates on the transition. 

Other Wallet Options in the NEAR Ecosystem? 
Again, if you’re interested in exploring the other wallets available in the NEAR ecosystem, there are plenty to check out. Over 30 wallet providers are currently compatible with NEAR. 

Visit AwesomeNEAR for a list of wallets compatible with the NEAR ecosystem. 
Inside the Tech: NFT.HipHop Marketplace
CASE STUDIES
July 12, 2021
The NFT.HipHop marketplace auction of the Hip Hop Heads collection began on Juneteenth and will run for 37 days, until July 25. A celebration of the history of hip hop and its most iconic artists, the pop-up marketplace also highlights some engineering innovations that highlight the advanced NFT developer and user experience on NEAR. NFT.HipHop incorporates seamless NEAR account creation, the ability to purchase NFTs with a credit card, customizable royalty splits that follow NFTs across marketplaces, and the debut of NFTs displaying in the NEAR wallet. 

Inside the User Experience
The NFT.HipHop auction marks a radical change in the way that NFT marketplaces can be executed. The user onboarding flow makes the process universally accessible and as familiar as any Web2 purchasing experience. With this new creative approach, end users with no existing crypto knowledge can easily purchase NFTs without the hurdles of onboarding to an exchange, purchasing cryptocurrency, or choosing and connecting a wallet. Thanks to the app’s wallet faucet and NEAR’s human-readable account naming system, all a user has to do is choose a NEAR name and the application handles the rest.

Marketplace credits for placing NFT bids can be purchased with a credit card. There is no complex, multi-step process of purchasing crypto through an exchange and paying high transaction fees as would be required with other NFT marketplaces today. Using crypto can be a confusing process for a novice, but by employing this progressive onboarding flow, the barrier to entry for crypto has been all but eliminated. The goal is to make NFTs accessible to all kinds of hip hop fans, not just crypto-native fans.

Inside the App
At its core, the NFT.HipHop marketplace is a standard React application with state management. dApp developers retrieve on-chain state using the NEAR API Helper, which interacts with the NEAR blockchain via CloudFlare. This tool allows caching heavy queries when the user lands on the page, as there are 103 portraits in the Hip Hop Heads collection and 37 available editions of each Head. As the user explores the marketplace, they’re only viewing one basic type of NFT. The canonical tokens, or “gem tokens,” are stored, and individual edition bids and sales are visible to the user within each gem. When clicking on an individual token, one sees which editions are for sale and the bidding history is pulled from the marketplace contract.

When the user is ready to bid on an NFT, a React component handles the flow of creating a NEAR account; if you already have a NEAR Wallet, you go straight to buying credits. Then the user gets a prompt to add “credits” to their account using Stripe. This happens through a custom-built stripe-payment-sandbox, which converts fiat into credits that are actually native fungible tokens usable only on the NFT.HipHop app.

This Stripe payment fiat onramp is accomplished by wrapping the fungible token standard with a custom API to ensure that only transfers to the marketplace or started by the marketplace are possible, in addition to tracking Stripe charges used to mint the tokens. The latter makes it possible to automate refunds when the auction concludes. The standard contract methods are wrapped so that an “assertion” can be added, verifying that transfer requests involve the marketplace. If the assertion fails, the smart contract will “panic,” displaying an alert indicating that “only transfers from the marketplace are allowed.”

Inside NFT Royalties on NEAR
Nearly all of the backend accounting is done transparently on the blockchain and is visible on NEAR Explorer, allowing for transparency paired with a real ability to illustrate the flow of funds. Using the Standard for a Multiple-Recipient-Payout mechanic on NFT Contracts, royalties on NEAR follow the NFTs in perpetuity. This allows for royalty enforcement across different marketplaces and applies to secondary sales. A user could have an NFT in their NEAR wallet and go to a different marketplace on NEAR, such as Paras or Mintbase, for a potential resale. With the royalties embedded in the actual NFT token, they must be respected in order to complete the transfer of that NFT. Completely customizable, royalties can be split between multiple contributors, beneficiaries, and even DAOs. This standard is the first of its kind and a key differentiator for NFT developers, artists, and users alike.

When the 36-day marketplace draws to a close, every auction winner will see their NFT displayed in their NEAR wallet––in fact, all NEAR NFTs from any marketplace are displayed in a collectibles tab in the wallet. Like art hanging on a gallery wall or in your home, the user’s collection is accessible within a few clicks, and not just within an individual marketplace. 

Inspired? Start Building!
Supporting documentation and open source repositories for building NFT marketplaces on NEAR are available to all. Any developer can utilize the concepts in this marketplace and model their dApps on this construct or remix different elements as part of a new idea. Head over to NFT.HipHop to see how NEAR’s seamless and easy tech can empower builders to create accessible, delightful user experiences.
Fireblocks Provides Custody Facility for Institutional Investors on NEAR
COMMUNITY
July 26, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Fireblocks, a leading provider of custody and settlement solutions for digital assets. Fireblocks is trusted by more than 1,300 banks, hedge funds, and financial institutions, and to date has ensured the safe transfer of more than $3 trillion. 

The Fireblocks integration with NEAR will allow institutional users to now access the NEAR Protocol’s fast and low-cost sharded proof-of-stake blockchain safely and securely. 

This means clients BNY Mellon, Credit Suisse, and other Tier 1 institutions can utilize Fireblocks’ class-leading custody solutions to access the NEAR ecosystem like never before.

“The institutional appetite for accessing DeFi across major blockchain ecosystems is only going to grow,” said Michael Shaulov, CEO of Fireblocks. “The newly launched integration with NEAR on Fireblocks will enable us to continue expanding the network of blockchains, DeFi and Web3 apps that institutional customers can  participate in. We look forward to continuing leading the way as the most secure platform for building crypto products and accessing global crypto capital markets.”     

Fireblocks on the NEAR ecosystem
Over the last few months, NEAR Foundation has identified that a healthy ecosystem should be made up of different communities. NEAR Foundation’s partnership with Fireblocks is a major step in helping institutional community members take part in the NEAR ecosystem. 

Fireblocks’ close relationships with banks, hedge funds, VC firms, and other financial institutions will allow these users to access a broad range of products being built on NEAR. 

Soon, Fireblock’s 1,000+ enterprise partners will be able to access Aurora, Ref.Finance, Octopus Network, and other decentralized apps being built on the platform. 

“A core mission for NEAR is building an ecosystem of diverse communities,” says NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament. “With the Fireblocks partnership, NEAR can now welcome to the NEAR ecosystem the many financial institutions that have turned to Fireblocks as their trusted provider for digital assets custody and settlement solutions.”

About Fireblocks
Fireblocks is a leading enterprise-grade platform delivering a secure infrastructure for moving, storing, and issuing digital assets. Fireblocks enables banks, fintechs, exchanges, liquidity providers, OTCs, and hedge funds to securely manage digital assets across a wide range of products and services. The technology consists of the Fireblocks Network and MPC-based Wallet Infrastructure. Fireblocks serves over 1,000 financial institutions and has secured over $2 trillion in digital assets. Fireblocks has a unique insurance policy that covers assets in storage & transit and offers 24/7 global support.
NEARCON ‘23 Day One: Major Announcements and Insightful Panels in Focus
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 8, 2023
As the sun set on Lisbon, the first day of an already iconic NEARCON ‘23 drew to a close, the excitement and momentum of the entire ecosystem was on full display. The morning kicked off with insightful sessions on open web interoperability and AI, all leading up to NEAR co-founder and newly announced NEAR Foundation CEO Illia Polosukhin unveiling some exciting announcements.

From regulatory talks to marketing in the open web, here’s everything that went down at Day One of NEARCON ‘23.

Talks, panels and sessions highlight day one
NEAR: The Open Web Vision
Illia Polosukhin, NEAR co-founder, delivered an inspiring session on his vision for the open web, sharing NEAR’s strategic direction and upcoming enhancements. His talk illuminated the path forward for the ecosystem, including new initiatives and partnerships in areas like account abstraction and NEAR’s role as the main portal to the open web.

Regulating the Open Web: Chris Donovan and Michael Casey
Chris Donovan, COO of NEAR Foundation, and Michael Casey, Chief Content Officer at CoinDesk, engaged in a riveting dialogue about the intersection of open web philosophies and regulation. They unpacked the complexities of fostering innovation within a framework that ensures inclusivity, transparency, and community governance.

Innovations in AI, Account Abstraction, and NFTs Today
Nate Geier, CEO of Mintbase, took attendees on a deep dive into the evolving realms of AI, account abstraction, and the burgeoning NFT landscape. His insights provided a closer look at how these technologies interplay to shape a user-centric NFT ecosystem and finding product market fit for NFT projects.

Marketing Through Web3 Mechanisms at DevHub and Beyond
Joe Spano of ShardDog highlighted the transformative power of open web mechanisms in the marketing domain. He discussed how decentralized approaches are reshaping brand strategies, offering businesses a novel way to engage with their audiences while retaining user privacy and control.

Open Brand: Unlocking the Power of Brand to Accelerate Growth

One of the biggest challenges for decentralized projects and founders is developing a powerful, cohesive brand. Tom Munckton, head of design at well-known branding agency Fold7, joined NEAR Foundation CMO Jack Collier in a fireside chat, where the two dove into NEAR’s rebrand as a case study for any open web project.

Recap of major announcements
The crowd at NEARCON ‘23 was buzzing with anticipation as Illia took the stage to kick off the afternoon sessions, and he didn’t disappoint, unveiling a number of key announcements that will drive NEAR’s vision of the open web into the future. 

NEAR Data Availability (DA)
Perhaps the biggest announcement of the day was Illia lifting the curtain on NEAR DA, offering Ethereum developers a low-cost, secure data availability layer. NEAR DA opens the door for enhanced modular blockchain solutions, ensuring scalability and cost-efficiency for developers in the NEAR ecosystem and beyond.

Polygon zkWASM
Illia also spotlighted a new NEAR and Polygon Labs partnership, zkWASM, which fuses zero-knowledge proofs with Web Assembly (WASM) for enhanced blockchain scalability and decentralization. This exciting research initiative will pave the way for greater trustless interoperability across the open web, including between NEAR and the Ethereum ecosystem.

Coin98 Decentralized Dapp Store 
Coin98’s new decentralized app store, leveraging NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S), will empower its 7 million users to access diverse apps across key Ethereum Layer-2 ecosystems. The user-friendly platform will enhance dApp discoverability, streamlining the open web experience within a single, decentralized interface.

Ecosystem announcements
And the momentum didn’t stop there, with a couple of key ecosystem announcements coming to the forefront during Day One.

Tekuno spurs open web adoption
Tekuno has sparked a surge in NEAR’s ecosystem by activating over 27,000 new wallets since March 2023. This NEAR BAAS platform, leveraging NFTs to gamify real-world experiences, has garnered attention with collaborations like Mastercard, showcasing NEAR’s growing appeal and Tekuno’s innovative impact.

Mintbase empowers NEAR builders
Mintbase, in partnership with NEAR, has launched its 2023 cohort to propel the NEAR ecosystem. The initiative aims to empower developers with essential open web development tools and has earmarked funding for innovative projects that contribute open-source solutions, driving forward the creation and adoption of decentralized applications.

Side events and networking success 
The day concluded with a couple of amazing side events where networking, brainstorming, and fun all came together. The final speaker session led right into the SailGP Happy Hour at the SailGP Lounge directly at the venue, giving NEARCON-goers a chance to unwind and socialize right away.

From there, things lead into the Opening Night Party, Sponsored by Cosmose and BitGo, at the Pavilhão Carlos Lopes. It’ll be a great chance to party until midnight with fellow builders, founders, and open web enthusiasts. Between the Opening Night party and SailGP Happy Hour, Day One’s social activities showcase the energy and enthusiasm of the entire ecosystem.

A stellar NEARCON Day Two agenda around the corner
As NEARCON ’23’s Day Two swiftly approaches, attendees can look forward to a plethora of enriching talks and panels, including deep dives into blockchain’s societal impacts and the latest in open web advancements. 

Additionally, the Women of Web3 Brunch and Founders Forum Programming kick off at 8:30 AM, offering insights on diversity, equity, and open web building success. And if you’re participating in the Hackathon, make sure your project is submitted by the deadline.

Thanks to everyone who attended Day One, and if you weren’t able to attend, rest assured that it’s just the beginning of a NEARCON ‘23 that will only grow to be more iconic over the next few days.
NEAR Recap: ETHDenver 2021
COMMUNITY
February 25, 2021
Hackathons are always intense. Combine them with blockchain technology, and they’re next-level. ETHDenver is the largest Ethereum #BUIDLathon in the world and it went entirely virtual in 2021. But that didn’t make it lose any of its usual spark. The 7-day-event was a resounding success and saw thousands of hackers, designers, artists, and blockchain enthusiasts participate in the conference’s many events. The NEAR community, too, gathered en masse. This is the NEAR recap of ETHDenver 2021.


BUIDLing on NEAR
NEAR was present at ETHDenver because it is a big fan of the Ethereum community. The NEAR blockchain is fast, scalable, and interoperable with Ethereum through the ETH-NEAR Rainbow Bridge. Ethereum developers can use the Rainbow Bridge to tap into the unique advantages of the NEAR blockchain without losing their connection to the vibrant Ethereum community. If you’re curious, watch NEAR developer Chad Ostrowski explain how the Rainbow Bridge works here.

NEAR puts the developer experience front and center, which makes BUIDLing on NEAR fun and easy. But you’ll never know that unless you try it out. That’s why NEAR had several bounties to encourage the ETHDenver participants to play with the NEAR blockchain and its ecosystem of dApps.

Social Impact Bounty: create something that benefits the social good;
NEAR & Ceramic Bounty: create something that uses both technologies;
NEAR & Textile Bounty: create something that uses both technologies;
Blue Sky Bounty: create something using the Rainbow Bridge;
Global Citizens Bounty: to promote projects from other parts of the world;
NFT Bounty: deploy an NFT store on Mintbase and do something creative;
GRL Power Bounty: to promote teams where over half are women.
A big hug and a thank you to all the hackers who submitted entries for these NEAR bounties. You could have built on any of the L1 and L2 blockchains present at ETHDenver, but you chose NEAR (and had great fun doing so). One of the NEAR bounty winners even won an ETHDenver Impact Bounty, only given to projects that address a UN Sustainable Development Goal. Congratulations to the team that built Token Meme, which intends to educate the next generation about blockchain and cryptocurrencies.

A DAO in a Moon Crater
ETHDenver is more than just a hackathon. Participants could watch talks and workshops live on Twitch, dance at the Decentralized Dance Party, play blockchain poker, explore Denver’s Sports Castle recreated in Minecraft, and much more. As it turned out, they could also interact with a working DAO on the NEAR mainnet. It wasn’t just a DAO either. It was a satellite that had crash-landed in a moon crater in the Cryptovoxels metaverse. Enter the SputnikDAO.

The ETHDenver SputnikDAO

The SputnikDAO is a framework of DAOs built on the NEAR blockchain that enables communities to build their own value systems and coordination mechanisms. An alien council governed this particular SputnikDAO at ETHDenver. The aliens sought advice from participants on what to do with their crash-landed satellite and were willing to pay up to 35 NEAR tokens in exchange for that advice.

The ETHDenver SputnikDAO showed that a working DAO running on a mainnet is possible and that interacting with one doesn’t have to be hard. If anything, it’s great fun! All you needed to interact with the DAO was a NEAR wallet. Over a hundred unique NEAR accounts submitted proposals to the SputnikDAO. Together, they generated 131 (and counting) pieces of advice that you can still view here. 

Some of the ETHDenver SputnikDAO entries

Thank you to everyone who interacted with the SputnikDAO. The proposals you submitted showcased how creative the NEAR community can be when given the right tools. Another thank you to Laura Camellini from Createbase for modeling the Sputnik satellite, Ilan Katin for modeling the moon crater, and Felipe Duarte and Guilherme Maueler of AgencyDAO for creating the alien council’s video message.

See You in the NEAR Future
Overall, thank you to the NEAR community for being so omnipresent and energized at ETHDenver 2021. Whether it was engaging with the SputnikDAO, submitting applications for NEAR bounties, giving talks on a wide variety of topics, or chatting to developers from other ecosystems, your presence was felt and appreciated.

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. If you want to be part of the NEAR community, join our Discord or Telegram channels or follow NEAR on Twitter. The community is inclusive and is supportive of anyone who wants to build awesome dApps.

As a final point, on the first day of ETHDenver, the NEAR Foundation announced the NEAR Grants Program (NGP). The NGP is meant to accelerate the world’s transition to open technologies and enable a community of developers and creators. Over the first half of 2021, the NGP will award the equivalent of $1 million to the teams who work on that goal. All developers who want to build something amazing on NEAR should strongly consider requesting a grant. See you in the NEAR future. Let’s build something epic.


Near at ETHDenver: the Blockchain Operating System, Near Day, and More
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 8, 2023
Missed Near Day and ETHDenver 2023? We’ve got you covered with content from Near talks and panels. There were also a number of awesome announcements, including the big news out of ETHDenver — the Blockchain Operating System.

Let’s take a look at all that was Near at ETHDenver. 

Near Day talks
Near co-founder and Pagoda CEO Illia Polosukhin unveiling the Blockchain Operating System.
Near Day, the 1-day mini summit on all things Near, was jam-packed with the latest technological and protocol updates. Chief among them was the announcement of the Blockchain Operating System.

Things got started with a Regenerative Finance (ReFI) talk from Open Forest Protocol’s Frederic Fournier and Flow Carbon’s Phil Fogel. Later in the morning programme, OnMachina’s Polina Aladina and Mark Collier talked about building decentralized storage on Near. As a vital Near ecosystem project, it was great for the ETHDenver crowd to hear from OnMachina on Web3 storage. 

OnMachina’s Mark Collier talking decentralized storage on Near.
Keypom, which also recently launched on Near, got some much needed visibility at Near Day. In “Instant Crypto Experiences with Keypom”,  Ben Kurrek and Matt Lockyer took the audience on a tour of their Web3 onboarding solution, in which users are given a special type of access key that can be used to experience a crypto application and later be turned into a wallet. (Read more about Keypom here.)

The morning programme also featured talks from Calimero Network’s Sandi Fatic on privacy and scaling with private sharding; Aurora Labs’ Alex Shevchenko on Containers, Aurora’s cloud computing solution for blockchains; Sweat Economy’s Oleg Fomenko on how to effectively onboard people from Web2 to Web3; and Near co-founder Alex Skidanov on how the future of AI will be decentralized. 

In the afternoon, there were a range of talks, starting with Pagoda’s Max Zavershynskyi presentation on creating “high velocity developer communities” via Near DevGov DAO. But the big news on Near Day was the Blockchain Operating System talk from Near co-founder Illia Polosukhin. After Illia primed the audience, Pagoda’s Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi elaborated on how Blockchain Operating System will help in onboarding millions of users to Near, while Pagoda’s Bowen Wang detailed the protocol innovations powering the Blockchain Operating System. 

Marieke Flament on the ETHDenver main stage for the ‘Crypto Winter, Bullish Builders’ panel.
Near Foundation CEO Marieke Flament and Dragonfly Capital’s Haseeb Qureshi also talked about why the future remains bright for Web3 even during the crypto winter. There were also talks from Pagoda’s Pavel Kudinov on the Near data stack and Josh Ford on a fully decentralized Javascript. 

Other topics included the building of infrastructure to onboard 1 billion users on Near, NFT infrastructure, a “DeFi survival kit” for the bear market, and the regulatory landscape in Web3.

Near speakers at ETHDenver 
Pagoda’s Bowen Wang discussing Near’s vision for Layer 1 infrastructure.
A number of speakers represented the Near ecosystem at ETHDenver talks. Topics included the Blockchain Operating System, sustainability, UX design, and more. 

Aurora Labs’ Alex Shevchenko kicked things off with a presentation on Web3 infrastructure and scalability — specifically, how not to hack everything up in creating bridges. Alex also gave another talk on next generation user experience. Near Foundation CEO Marieke Flament delivered a talk on the three pillars of Web3 sustainability, while Proximity Labs’ Kendall Cole explored how Web3 can win in the DeFi battle against app stores. 

Aurora Labs CEO Alex Shevchenko delivering a talk at ETHDenver.
In separate talks, Illia Polosukhin and Pagoda’s Bowen Wang spoke to the ETHDenver audience about the Blockchain Operating System. While Bowen mapped out Near’s vision for Layer 1 Infrastructure, Illia talked about reinventing Web3 development with decentralized frontends and social networking. 

Near Announcements
While the Near is the Blockchain Operating System announcement was the talk of ETHDenver, there were plenty of other announcements. Find the full run-down of Near ecosystem announcements here.

In other news, the Near ecosystem had two wins at ETHVC’s Startup Demo Day during ETHDenver — Niche Protocol, a Web3 social media platform, and Kino, a film financing platform.


Music and Blockchain: Introducing the Future of Sound
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 11, 2022
After more than two years of a global pandemic, following what seemed to be a never-ending sequence of postponements, rescheduling, and cancellations, live music has returned in full force. From destination festivals to elaborate arena shows or even regional theaters and local clubs, venues are opening their doors to once again allow artists to perform and connect with their fans. 

At the same time, musical artists’ revenues have also been shrinking in the centralized streaming music model dominated by big tech firms. On the most popular streaming services, a single track needs to be streamed more than 300 times to generate $1 in royalties for the artist. To further complicate payouts, rates are rarely paid at a flat rate per stream, agreements are ever-changing, different tiers and subscriptions impact pay rates, and streams are more valuable in various areas worldwide.

Just as musicians had to pivot during their absence from the stage and find new and meaningful ways to stay connected with their fans, the Web3 community has been incubating ideas in using blockchain to disrupt both the music industry’s physical release and streaming music models. 

The future of music is being written today, on NEAR, by a vibrant and diverse community of artists, developers, fans, and more. Various music projects, led by teams of Web3 developers and entrepreneurs, are working to give power back to music artists while breaking down the walls between them and their fans. 

This series will explore how artists, producers and musicians are taking control over their assets, and building music on NEAR.

An industry saturated with problems 
Even with Web2 streaming music platforms, the recording industry’s model has remained essentially unchanged for nearly a century. Most record labels have one goal — maximizing profits. They hold on to as much of their earnings as possible and dictate unfavorable terms when establishing contracts with most artists, save for a handful of superstars able to negotiate more favorable agreements.

As traditional album sales have given way to streaming services, musicians often receive only fractions of a penny per play on popular streaming services. A vast and perplexing network of labels, publishers, distributors, royalty collectors, and other middlemen make getting paid as an artist an inefficient and exceedingly lengthy process with little transparency. 

As a result, touring and merchandise sales have become necessary to earn as a musician in 2022. But as touring revenues fell over the last two years, musicians have more cause than ever to disrupt the traditional song and record publishing revenue.

Faster, more efficient creative control
Cutting-edge protocols for NFTs, fractional ownership, smart contracts, and real-time on-chain settlement of royalties make blockchain and the music industry a natural pairing. A blockchain boom in the music industry is imminent thanks to NEAR Protocol’s robust feature set already in use and hugely successful in areas like, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs). 

With each of these technologies, the architects of music’s future envision more manageable, faster, and more accurate payments for artists’ work. Through smart contracts, the existing, painfully slow process of royalty payments could be reduced from multiple months to mere seconds. Each time a listener presses play on a song, musicians could be paid near instantaneously, primarily due to NEAR’s Nightshade being theoretically capable of millions of transactions per second. 

Smart contracts that settle royalty payments in real-time will obliterate the need for third-party middlemen, leaving more money in the hands of the artists and creators. Artists will be empowered to establish direct seller-consumer relationships with their fans, with blockchain technology as the foundation. 

Beyond being extremely fast and super secure, NEAR’s blockchain is global in scale and exceptionally transparent. Fractional ownership already implemented on NEAR will bring a new level of transparency in proving ownership over a specific piece of music and confirming every individual with a claim to its copyright. Artists can have access to all streaming and fan activity data instead of the limited access to watered-down data that they currently receive from their label, distributor, or streaming platforms.


Writing the future of music on NEAR
The future of music is one where a radical change to the way music publishing, royalties, launching and managing record labels, and even building music software will be achieved. NEAR Protocol’s amazingly reliable and consistent blockchain is home to several exciting projects, each shaping the evolution of Web3 technology that can power the multi-billion-dollar recording industry. 

Experimenting with audio NFTs, virtual events, and decentralized communities, the NEAR-based DAOrecords are building tools to enable musicians to “harness the power of the blockchain revolution.” Artists retain full ownership of everything they create and are not restricted by any contract. The label has now worked with over 100 artists, released over 350 NFTs, and produced over 50 virtual events for an ever-growing community. 

“At its core, a label is just a facilitator,” says Vandal. “The new Web3 record labels will most likely be DAOs, providing funding, support, resources and even minting and other services an artist might require.”

“Their role will generally remain the same,” he adds. “But with shared ownership, transparency and a blockchain-inspired business model is what will make it appealing to artists.”

DAOrecords’ vision of the future is a music industry where artists have control over their music and the relationship with their fans and community, all within their economy powered by the NEAR blockchain.

Designed for the metaverse and the play-to-earn era, MODA DAO is a decentralized technology network and community spearheading the “Music3” movement, their term for the music industry’s Web3 adoption through NFTs, micro-licensing, DAO governance, and DeFi. With a suite of creator tools, underlying infrastructure, and a publishing ecosystem, they effectively remove middlemen, increasing value between creators and fans. 

MODA is being established as a not-for-profit foundation to push Web3 music forward and establish a more sustainable future for audio creators. Powered by a DAO, holders of the MODA Tokens are invited into various ecosystem layers. They can back specific artists to increase their exposure and ranking or even stake into new songs before they are released, increasing visibility within the MODA catalog. 

NFT.HipHop is a collaborative NFT art series featuring the work of illustrator André LeRoy Davis, established through a partnership between NEAR, the Universal Hip Hop Museum, and Ed Young, co-founder of The Source magazine. A celebration of the history of hip hop and its most iconic artists, the collection features NFTs of 47 legends – from Eazy-E to Lil Wayne – to honor the 47th year of the hip-hop era. A prime example of synergy between music merchandising and blockchain, the pop-up marketplace also highlighted some engineering innovations, including the advanced NFT developer and user experience on NEAR.

Driven by fans and a thriving community 
NEAR’s roadmap includes an unwavering commitment to facilitating the decentralization of the network to the community. Just as power is placed into the hands of the developer and end-user community in blockchain, a shift of power from record executives and industry suits to the artists, creators, and fans will help realize the future of music.

NEAR x Music (NxM) is a community focused on music, events, NFTs, and music-forward tools. This vibrant, accessible, and inclusive community of artists, creators, developers, and fans fosters a unique environment where opportunities for collaboration are endless; and where knowledge, gleaned through community contributions, knows no limits. 

“NxM is a hub for all artists, producers, and people who simply love music by generating values for all customers through different streams and activities,” says the NxM Council. “We expand the NxM community by connecting music lovers on Web3 space and nurture organic growth through activities such as funding musician’s projects, events, community campaigns, and media operations.” 

Specifically, NxM helps musicians produce music projects and events with web3 tools like DAOs, NFT galleries, and marketplaces, as well as offline and online events. 

“NFTs and the use of smart contracts is a way to split profits amongst collaborators,” the NxM Council says. “Music specifically tends to involve multiple participants to make a release come together. But by using smart contracts, especially with the tools built into Mintbase, artists are able to write splits into their contracts for both initial and secondary market sales.”

Poised to shift the paradigm of the music industry as a whole, NEAR’s unique architecture serves as the foundation and natural home for platforms and tools aimed at improving music fans’ experience and guaranteeing artists’ control over their valuable work. In a truly decentralized fashion, a strong, engaged, and growing global community is at the helm of this movement. 

Paired with NEAR’s fast, secure, and scalable blockchain, this community of creators and consumers is becoming a formidable, rising force. Join NxM and the greater NEAR community as they prepare to usher in the future of music and write tomorrow’s verse.

Growth off the charts
From physical album releases to audio tracks in MP3 format available on digital storefronts, to entire catalogs being accessible within a streaming app, the recording industry has undergone several technological revolutions in even the last 20 years. Similar to how social music platforms have allowed artists to connect directly with fans and grow their influence, the advent of Web3 stands ready to once again change how artists and their fans create, manage, and interact with music. 

Today’s record industry isn’t working for the vast majority of artists. NEAR Protocol’s rich and robust underlying infrastructure is the perfect platform for the growing Web3 music industry to call home. A fast, secure, and scalable blockchain has allowed projects to demonstrate that blockchain-based music rights administration is feasible and has the potential to benefit creators and consumers in significant ways. 

As the global NEAR community places faith in indie artists, new companies, and industry figures, the momentum they’ve built will have no choice but to be recognized and adopted by the industry giants. Whether it’s the next symphony, chart-topping hit, or Indie B-side, the future of music is being written on NEAR, one note at a time.
Call for Founders and Developers to Qualify Your B.O.S Apps Before NEARCON ‘23
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 30, 2023
Dear NEAR B.O.S Developer Community, 

This week, the Pagoda product team launched the App Library to help B.O.S founders and developers showcase and promote their apps. With over 200 applications powered by B.O.S and more than 11,000 components now in the ecosystem, the App Library is a page on near.org designed to help users and community members find your applications and promote greater usage across the NEAR ecosystem. 

The App Upvoting Event: NCON Bounty
To find the first group of featured apps on App Library, we are launching the App Upvoting Event as a NCON Bounty to invite all NEARCON attendees to upvote and decide who gets featured! 

“NCON Bounties” is a Web3 gamified event experience for attendees to engage throughout the event. Attendees will earn NCON by completing Bounties and have the option to redeem NCON for food, merchandise, and more. Participants who decide to complete this special NCON Bounties experience will also help select the first group of featured apps in the B.O.S. App Library. 

How to Qualify and Get Your App Featured?
To ensure your dApp shines during this event, here’s what you need to do. The following steps can be be found in the B.O.S interface for those who want to participate — simply go to the Metadata page of your app and follow the instructions below:

Create a Captivating Description
Craft a compelling introduction to your dApp. Highlight its unique features and value proposition. Pro tip: Add screenshots to make your dApp visually appealing and easy to understand. (Description is required!)

Tag Your App
First, make sure to tag the component that holds the entry to your project experience as App. Then, choose the category that best represents your dApp—Earn, Play, Develop, Engage. (Choosing one of these four categories is required! If you applied more than one of these four tags, then we will only use the latest one you applied.) Add additional tags for improved discoverability. Make it easy for users to find and appreciate your work.

(These categories are suggested from research around users’ needs, broken down by categories and industry app store benchmarks. Check near.org/applications on how these categories are currently being used)

Spread the Word
It’s time to promote! Rally your community, spread the news across your networks, and encourage users to like and engage with your dApp. The more upvotes your app gets, the greater your chances of securing a top spot.

Why Participate?
The App Library isn’t just a catalog — it’s an interactive platform that spotlights the capabilities of the NEAR B.O.S. It will become the most visited page on near.org and serves as a gateway to the NEAR Ecosystem. By participating, you have the chance to feature prominently on the App Library and the NEAR homepage for the next three months, gaining exposure and recognition across the NEAR ecosystem and beyond.

What’s the Payoff? 
Your active participation can lead to significant rewards:

Top 8 Featured dApps
The dApps with the highest number of upvotes from this event will be showcased prominently on the landing page of the App Library for the next three months, putting your creation on the most visited page on near.org.

Category Leaders 
The top 4 dApps in each category will be prominently featured on category pages, such as Earn, Play, Develop, and Engage. This targeted exposure aligns with the core needs and use cases of the diverse NEAR user base.

What’s Next? 
Upvote Button Enabled 2 days Before NEARCON
2 days before NEARCON, you will see an upvote button appear on the details pages of your qualified Apps. Any users who have an account on near.org can now send their support by hitting that upvote button. This upvote button will be disabled two days after NEARCON, and the total number of upvotes you received in the event will be displayed for 6 months on your details page as your participation badge. 

NEARCON attendees will be incentivized to engage with App Upvoting by earning NCON
QR code and event posters will be promoted at the NEARCON venues to encourage them to complete this Bounty. In addition, this Bounty will be part of the NCON product for NEARCON participants to earn more NCON, so we will make sure your dApps get plenty of exposure. 

Event Timeline Summary
October 27th — Submit your App for Qualification. App Upvoting Bounty Event Page made available on near.org. Qualified Apps will be Fetched (Qualified Apps will be fetched continuously on one-hour intervals throughout the NEARCON event through November 13th).
November 3rd — Upvote button enabled + counters started.
November 13th — Upvote disabled + results calculated.
November 17th — Results display + feature apps updated on main App Library page.
The primary goal of the App Library is to celebrate the creativity and efforts of NEAR developers and founders. To increase visibility, boost engagement, and get valuable feedback from the whole NEAR community on your app, make sure to register your apps as qualified and participate in the App Upvoting NCON Bounty. 
Hacking a New World with MetaBUILD III
DEVELOPERS
September 1, 2022
UPDATE: MetaBUILD III’s Pre-Accelerator Program has some new details. Scroll down to the “After the Hack” section for more information.

Six months ago, NEAR wrapped up the MetaBUILD 2 hackathon just as the world shut down. New challenges emerged, both inside and outside the NEAR ecosystem. The crypto market itself was seemingly falling apart, and everyone was talking about the looming “Crypto winter”. It was clear that in order to continue, a new, creative approach would be necessary.

NEAR was founded during some of the gloomiest times of the previous “Crypto winter”, so at least some of this was already familiar territory. In fact, NEAR’s resilient design was informed by the uncertainty in the markets surrounding its release. This resilience is not just evident in the technology, but it can also be seen throughout the ecosystem. 

To maintain the health of its vibrant community, NEAR focused the aim of its hackathons towards a broader, more ambitious journey for participants—what if these hackathons could foster each team from ideation all the way to forming a Web3 start-up with a market-ready product?

MetaBUILD III: A Bigger, Better Impact
MetaBUILD is considered one of the biggest hackathons in the blockchain community. With a $1 million in prizes pool, nearly 4,000 participants, and more than 350 submissions from across the world, it has helped realize ideas from streaming tokens to metaverse worlds. In fact, some of these winners will be featured at NEARCON in September, so the community can listen to their stories and learn from their challenges.

This year, MetaBUILD III returns with its $1 million in prizes, with registrations opening today and submissions starting September 23rd. But participants should expect to see the hackathon’s format evolve. It’s shaping it up to become an 8-week product-oriented incubation program, hosted by Pagoda, focused on supporting teams beyond the prize money, towards securing funding, and producing a market-ready prototype. Here’s what else is new:

Instead of the Welcome track (for newly created projects), a Web2 track will be established to help existing teams integrate NEAR blockchain into their current products.
Only newly created or substantively modified projects are allowed to enter the Native track to ensure that participants are committed to remaining in the ecosystem even after they win. Proofs of concept projects built during NEARCON’s 48hs IRL hackathon are welcome to join MetaBUILD. 
Challenges instead of bounties: MetaBUILD III is looking for sustained product teams who understand their market and are committed to building solutions addressing some of the most pressing challenges of today: rising unemployment, the energy crisis, refugee crises, climate change, access to education and other resources, media censorship, etc.
This shift in perspective centers on an understanding of how impactful $1 million could be in the right hands. It is not only about proving great ideas, but growing them as products that can make a long-term impact in the ecosystem and beyond!

Ways to MetaBUILD
Whether you are a solo hacker or an ecosystem partner, there are several ways to participate in MetaBUILD III:

As a developer
Incubate your project from idea to an MVP in 8 weeks. Find some talented teammates, and win $20-60k to continue building. 

Learn more >

As a non-technical person
Pivot your career into Web3, and join one of the teams as a designer, bizdev expert, product manager, or copywriter to build a winning project together.

As a NEAR community member
Host a workshop, share your success story, or provide mentorship to participants. 

Learn more >

As a Web3 company or VC
Spread the word about MetaBUILD in your community, apply to become a mentor or a judge, or host an IRL event to inspire and support the MetaBUILD community. 

Learn more > 

To help fuel the ideas for the next big wave in Web3, a whole educational program will be added to the incubation process:

The Education team behind NEAR University will provide self-paced NEAR workshops.
Team Docs will present their Zero to Hero tutorialsto make sure the onboarding process is streamlined for everyone. 
The Pagoda team is already hosting monthly Developer Tooling meetings to demonstrate the features and capabilities of their latest releases.
After the Hack: Pre-Accelerator Program from Pagoda and Startup Wise Guys
This time, MetaBUILD is not just about building a quick project for competition. The new challenge is for developers to join and build a new product that can hit the market and make a long-term impact on the NEAR ecosystem. From MVP in the hack, to a first market release in the pre-accelerator program, MetaBUILD III is designed to get devs the resources they need to get there with a solid foundation.

Of the winning submissions, 30 MetaBUILD projects will be welcomed to a pre-accelerator program hosted by Pagoda and Startup Wise Guys. Projects will have access to a roster of talented NEAR ecosystem mentors, who will support them in their early stages as projects focus on the key components of their business and idea. NEAR mentors will also help winning submissions develop go-to-market strategies with clear goals and propositions, acquire their first customers, operate sustainably for the long term, and attract investment with our roster of talented NEAR ecosystem partners, amongst other things. 

Ultimately, the pre-accelerator program will help projects prepare to successfully apply for full-time accelerator programs or first-round investment opportunities. 

The “We” in Web3
Navigating a bear market is a sobering experience, but it is also an inspiring one, because Web3 is ready to face new challenges, new audiences, and new use cases. All it needs are open minds, ambitious ideas, and a willingness to work together to change the world—one decentralized project at a time.

Ready to hack the ever changing world? Build your next project on NEAR. MetaBUILD III is here to guide you from idea to market, and beyond. We have the expertise, the funds, and the drive to face new challenges together.
NEAR and Popp Partner on Customer Engagement for Small Businesses
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 24, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Popp, a company helping small businesses generate better customer engagement using Web3 technology. 

As part of the partnership, Popp — a solution-as-a-service (SaaS) for small-to-medium consumer brands — will launch its white-labeled tools and products exclusively on NEAR. 

How Popp works for small businesses
Popp helps consumer brands launch micro community spaces for customers, which are embedded in their online stores. Milestone-based customer rewards then drive more engagement for brands. The NEAR partnership will, for instance, allow Popp’s customers to issue NFTs when certain milestones are met. 

On Popp, brands can build deeper, more meaningful connections with customers by rewarding them across multiple touch points. Through these bespoke projects, Popp has already generated over £57k in revenue ($69k USD) in six months via six pilot partners. 

Popp has two interfaces. On the business side, each brand gets its own custom dashboard, where they control its loyalty and rewards program and see customer data. On the customer side, users can see all of the user activity in one place, like new members and the number of “Popps” that are live or completed. Customers can also create and interact with content — the more they interact with the community, the more coins they can earn. 

Popp’s customer brands include Batch LDN, perl Cosmetics, Acid Running, Jenki Matcha, and Ocean Bottle. 

What’s a Popp? 
A Popp is a small task set by a brand for customers. If customers complete the task, they earn coins that can be used to redeem rewards or unlock experiences. 

Each brand can set a variety of Popps for their customers, which are micro-tasks that generate value for the brand. This can include creating content, leaving reviews, or referring friends. Completing various Popps give users things like discounts and vouchers, but brands can also set up popps for charity, sustainability, and much more.

Through Popp’s “Partnerships” feature, brands can make coins redeemable for rewards from partnering bands. This feature even allows companies to “invite” brands to partner with them for these rewards.  Each customer gets their own user profile, through which they can see the number of coins they’ve collected, and explore where to redeem rewards.

 

Head over to Popp to explore the company’s customer rewards ecosystem. Popp’s closed beta is now live and e-commerce brands should head over to the website now to join the waitlist! 
Goodbye San Francisco | November 1st, 2019
COMMUNITY
November 1, 2019
We had an amazing time at San Francisco Blockchain Week (SFBW), hosting events, attending panels, and meeting so many amazing people! Highlights included a discussion on App Chains vs. dApps with Cosmos, an event on blockchain gaming, and a panel on blockchain adoption with some of our beta program projects. 

Sounds amazing but you could not make it? Don’t freak out, we will release the recordings soon!

Prior to SFBW, we joined StakeZero Ventures at their introductory events of the Future of Blockchain Competition in Oxford, Cambridge, and London. You can find more information about the event here. (Late applications may still be accepted.)

Lastly, we are continuing our lunch series on the NEAR Protocol. Check out the previous videos and let us know what aspects of the protocol you would like to learn more about.

To shard or not to shard that is the question! (Source)
COMMUNITY UPDATE
We have over 250 sign-ups for Stake Wars, NEAR Protocol’s incentivized testnet program. You can still join us and practice your powers. To learn more jump over to our latest announcement.
This month’s ambassador challenge was to record a video stating why they support NEAR and help to grow the community; we received some great content! Check out Buster’s & Cristian’s video for example. 
UPCOMING EVENTS
*Please stand by. This section will be updated soon*

Now for real, events take a lot of time to prepare and organise. While we love to meet everyone, talk to the community (YOU) and have discussions, we are, after all, building a blockchain. We will let you know ASAP about upcoming events.

The Future of Blockchain Competition Introduction Event in London (Source)
WRITING AND CONTENT
If you are thinking about building on NEAR or want to get an extra push to get started, check out the Future of Blockchain Competition, organised by StakeZero Ventures. 
If you are wondering how we get things done, check out unicorn Alex live coding core features of the NEAR Protocol.
We now have two (one, two) Chinese versions of our Economics paper; translated by our ambassadors. Here is the original version.
Unicorn Alex doing his magic
ENGINEERING UPDATES
167 PRs across 26 repos by 20 authors. Featured repos:nearcore,nearlib,near-shell,near-wallet,near-bindgen, near-fiddle-api, NEARStudio, assemblyscript, borsh, create-near-app, stakewars and near-explorer;

Check out Alex live coding core features of the NEAR Protocol
A massive refactoring of Nightshade that significantly reduces the number of messages exchanged and also addresses issues with chunk producers going offline.
Finality gadget routine that computes the last finalized block and implementation of the fork choice rule that respects the finality gadget.
The second part of the whiteboard lunch series is live
Adding genesis tools for stakewars into dockerfile in nearcore
Speeding up / less network for block sync in nearcore
Cleanup and usability improvements in near-bindgen
Seed phrase recovery support in near-wallet
Implemented multinet support in near-explorer
Added a cross-contract call example in nomicon
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!

If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Why Chain Abstraction Is the Next Frontier for Web3
A POST FROM ILLIA POLOSUKHIN
January 24, 2024
Most of today’s dapps are not actually dapps, i.e. decentralized applications. If you need to leave the app in order to start using it, it’s not really an app––it’s just a frontend. If users have to manually onboard themselves through exchanges and manage multiple accounts and gas fees and bridges, did you even build an app? I think not––which may explain why only a few million people in the world are using dapps. 

If we want to see mainstream adoption of Web3 because we believe a more open, decentralized internet that supports self-sovereignty for all people is better for the world, then we will need to do better.

The prevailing narrative in Web3 today is modularity, or separating out the different functional layers of a blockchain, i.e. settlement, data availability, and execution, for the sake of scalability. Layer-twos, optimistic and ZK rollups, data availability layers, sidechains, and state channels are all examples of modularity solutions. 

This proliferation of blockchains & rollups has led to a degraded experience for users and developers. Modularity and a world of many chains leads to more fragmentation of liquidity, apps, and users––a significant degree of complexity in the user experience that no mainstream user could ever be expected to navigate. This also applies to developers, who feel pressure to commit to a specific tech stack while limiting the audience for their application. Now when you build a dapp, you’re enshrining yourself into a small addressable market by choosing a single chain.

I want to propose a better vision for the entire Ethereum ecosystem and all of Web3: let’s work together on advancing mainstream adoption via chain abstraction. The idea is that blockchains must be abstracted away from the user so they are not barriers to entry or participation. NEAR has been focusing on this vision since 2018 and today has achieved the most users of any network in Web3: 12.4 million monthly active accounts and 34 million accounts overall. 

Here’s how we can defragment Web3 and onboard billions of users via dapps. 

What does this look like for the user? 

Let’s imagine how using a dapp should actually work: transacting across networks and navigating between experiences with ease, all within a single interface. As one example, Alice picks up her phone and opens KAIKAI from her lockscreen. She orders a smoothie from a local place and sees in the app that there’s a discount offer from her favorite clothing store, Maison, and orders a pair of shoes for the spring. Alice sees she has earned enough KAICHING rewards to get a badge from Maison, not knowing it’s an NFT on Polygon, and redeems it in her account. 

When she browses Maison on the KAIKAI app later that day, she notices that her new badge reveals an offer to buy tickets for an exclusive event at their store with a DJ she likes. She buys the ticket with KAICHING and receives 2 tickets, still not knowing it’s an NFT on Arbitrum. Since she gets a +1, Alice invites her friend Bob to come with her and pings him for his address. 

Bob sends his NEAR address to Alice and opens his app to check out the ticket. He sends Alice some ETH to say thanks for the invite and looks at the different cryptos he has in his account. Since he’s on the metro and has some time, he decides to buy some BTC and borrow against it with USDC so he can mint a Fighting Dragon NFT on Magic Eden. His friend Charles texted him earlier to get one so they could play each other in Year of the Dragon, a new game on NEAR where their dragons can battle each other for coins they can stake.

All of these interactions and transactions can take place in a single interface and in a completely private way. There are no wallets, no switching networks, and no transaction fees to deal with; those are embedded directly in the swap or the buy and handled on behalf of the user. Alice didn’t need to worry about which network the ticket is on and Bob can send her funds for the ticket in whichever crypto he wants, moving seamlessly into buying a different one the next second. All inside of an app. This is the level of seamlessness we should be striving for as an ecosystem.

How do we achieve Chain Abstraction?

Everyone building an app in Web3 will benefit from being able to access such a broad market of potential users as in this example––i.e. anyone who uses apps. Whereas today, developers choose a network based on access to liquidity or the users of a specific rollup or chain, in a chain abstraction future they can just build with the best tech. The users will show up for the best experiences. 

Imagine if a Gmail user couldn’t just send a message to an Outlook address––it doesn’t make sense. The same is true for Web3 addresses. The core assumption of chain abstraction is: end users don’t care about the underlying blockchain. They just want apps to work. In reality, blockchains are simply infrastructure to receive value out of Web3: security of assets from seizure, economic opportunity, removing middlemen for transactions, global permissionless identity, data provenance, entertaining experiences, and more.

The core goal of chain abstraction is to defragment the increasingly fractured modular landscape of Web3. While this will be most visible at the user experience layer, this defragmentation of liquidity and accounts is possible thanks to innovation at the security layer. 

Zero knowledge (ZK) introduces a principally new approach to ledger security. Whereas before one needed to trust a decentralized set of validators, now even a single computer can prove that rules were followed with a simple proof. This means that where before, developers would be forced to either build on a shared chain or spend immense resources to launch a new one, now they can just spin one up on their single server.

This new paradigm introduces the idea of cross settlement: as more chains become fully ZK provable, if some proof is published on other chains, there is no way to revert this chain without also needing to revert other chains. Transactions from one chain can also settle on multiple others via ZK proofs. This provides mesh security as all proofs continuously get aggregated, allowing the safe movement of assets between such chains.

In order to achieve unified security, two things are needed at the bottom of the stack: Data availability, which provides a way for everyone to sync even if the operator is offline, and a decentralized sequencer for applications that don’t have a central operator. 

The next layer is identity with that security unified. Users can have an address on all possible chains and move assets between them freely. From a user perspective, this should be a single account where they interact with apps on different chains, and assets either get bridged or swapped automatically. 

I call this “account aggregation” and will share more details about it in another post soon. NEAR will launch the next version of FastAuth in March 2024, which has mapping for NEAR addresses to EVM, Bitcoin, and other addresses. NEAR accounts can request to sign a transaction for another chain. This allows them to build multichain apps directly as smart contracts on NEAR. 

The final layer is unifying the experience layer, or the application layer (e.g. DapDap)––providing a way to interact with apps on various chains without users switching or needing to leave a single interface. A decentralized frontend can provide easy components to build in a chain-abstracted way. NEAR can achieve this through NearJS, combining data indexing and decentralized frontends––V2 also coming in March 2024. 

How is NEAR enabling Chain Abstraction? 

The NEAR ecosystem has been building towards the chain abstraction vision since its beginnings in 2018, focusing on usability, a flexible account model, and a highly scalable blockchain that could support mainstream apps with billions of users. Today, the stack has expanded to support full chain abstraction across chains and all kinds of apps. 

Scalable, integrated blockchain that can grow to 1B+ daily active accounts.
Security aggregation stack consisting of NEAR DA, zkWASM (collaboration with Polygon Labs), and EigenLayer-powered Fast Finality.
Account aggregation on top of this to enable transacting on all chains using a single account
Data layer that supports everything from monolithic, integrated, modular, private and permissioned chains to query data in a predictable protocol.
Intent relayers that can execute complex intents across chains using this infra.
Decentralized frontends that provide discoverability and composability for multiple apps across chains into one experience.
Super (app) wallets that are user friendly and offer a way to navigate all of Web3 without having to switch networks or deal with gas tokens and bridges.
Importantly, each of these layers supports builders from across Web3, including Ethereum, rollups & L2s, and beyond––the multichain future is becoming the chain abstraction future. 

Call to Action

2024 is the year of hiding the complexity of multichain infrastructure to deliver the Web3 experiences we’re striving for. Improving usability and discoverability should be a priority for all Web3 builders, as well as solving for liquidity fragmentation and security tradeoffs. 

Let’s make chain abstraction a movement. The NEAR ecosystem invites builders from across Web3 to take advantage of the solutions we’re offering and to collaborate with us to build more chain abstraction solutions together. Stay tuned for more news on collaborations as well as details on an exciting event that NEAR Foundation will co-host at ETHDenver 2024.

Special thanks to Zaki Manian for conversations that led to this post as well as for his review.
NEAR Foundation Funding Team Report: October 2022
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 23, 2022
Welcome to our Funding Team Report that captures and highlights data  for the month of October 2022. The purpose of this document is to provide transparency regarding our Funding Team’s activities last month, and is to be shared publicly to the NEAR ecosystem and our investor network.

Summary 

1. Grant data

1.1. Approved Grant program data

1.2. Grant highlights

1.3 Completed projects & Milestone data

1.4 Effectiveness of the funding program

2. External funding in the NEAR Ecosystem

3. Ecosystem highlights

1. Grant data
1.1. Approved Grant Program data
Data reflects projects that have applied for a Grant via the Grants Program and that have been signed by the NEAR Foundation during the month of October (01.10.2022 to 31.10.2022).

 *Note: all applications have been processed.

General Grant data

Applications received*   📥	Grant Agreements signed   ✅	Conversion rate	Average Grant Amount	Committed amount in dollars 💵
141	14	8.5%	$40 K	$564 K 
Grant tracks**

Activation (up to $10 K)	3
Builder (up to $50 K)	8
Advanced Builder (up to $100 K)	3
** For more information please have a look at our grant tracks.

Grants per category 

NFTs                                 5

Infrastructure / Wallets             3

Social Impact                        1

Institutional / Financial            1

Gaming / Metaverse                   1

DAOs                                                 1

Other                                2

Grants per country (Top 5)

United States                3

United Kingdom               3

Switzerland                  1

Singapore                     1

Thailand                      1

1.2. Grant highlights 
This section provides highlights of grants that have been signed during the month.

NFT projects 

KINO	website	Advanced Builder	United States
Disrupting Hollywood by allowing retail to invest in film making, create experiences for token holders and collectives. Founded by an Executive Producer who has sold shows with Matt Damon and Jimmy Kimmel, and a 3x Tech Founder (USC Law/London School of Economics) whose last web3 startup reached over 500k holders and $500m mcap. 

KwikTrust	website	Builder 	United Kingdom
The Platform allows for easy, self-certified and third-party validation of files, with the results stored securely on a blockchain, creating an irrefutable record of activity. This will increase trust and transparency in the NEAR NFT space and be a platform for existing and upcoming NFTs.

Endless	website	Builder 	Thailand
Web3 gaming launchpad and building SDKs for gaming developers. The team has plenty of experience building web3 gaming platforms with their current company called Playfix

Haus Passport	website	Builder 	United Kingdom
Data base on the NEAR blockchain that acts as a repository for information relating to a property, like a passport for a house. The goal is to provide a transparent platform to make buying and selling houses simpler, safer and quicker.

NFT.HipHop	website	Builder 	United States
NFT.HipHop is being developed to be the primary destination for all Hip Hop-centric NFT/Web3 projects. The founder is deeply rooted within the NEAR Ecosystem and aims to bring his existing large web2 community in the Hip Hop space to NEAR.

Infrastructure / Wallets projects 

Blockversekit	website	Advanced Builder	Spain
NFT Analytics tool that allows tracking of held NFTs and provides updates for  upcoming mints and collections, with the focus on approaching the communities and people about NEAR. Strong connection with the TENK Bay and drives NFT growth within NEAR. 

MAP Protocol	website	Builder 	Singapore
MAP Protocol is an omnichain layer of Web3 with highly secure cross-chain communication built upon light-client and zk-SNARK technology. MAP Protocol connects both EVM & non-EVM chains, extending the EVM layer with pre-compiled smart contracts of destination chains seamlessly.

NEARBlocks	website	Builder 	Indonesia 
NEARBlocks features optimisations being provided by Invoker Labs.

Institutional / Financial projects 

Datality 	website	Activation	United States
Datality brings trust and safety to connect researchers with research data providers. A two-sided data marketplace with blockchain as the transparent layer of trust.

Social Impact projects 

Aidonic	website	Builder 	Switzerland 
AIDONIC offers digital cash and voucher assistance, powered by NEAR and by ensuring end-to-end transparency, cost- and speed efficiency and accountability for social fundraising and last-mile aid distribution.


DAO’s

Community Health Analytics	website	Builder 	United Kingdom
Provide insights for the Near Ecosystem that improves its ability to collaborate effectively and operate thriving communities thanks to predictive indicators of viability as well as diagnostic tools for DAO Communities. 

Gaming / Metaverse projects 

Pixudi 	website	Builder 	Montenegro
Pixudi is an NFT based blockchain project where a traditional race board game meets Heroes of Magic mechanics. It is more than a game, it’s bridge from the real world of board games to the blockchain world of NFT based on DAO mechanics.

Other projects 

Decent.land	website	Activation	Netherlands
Modular collection of social and identity protocols. Developers can use part of all of the stack for anything from adding social features to deploying a fully decentralized, token-aware web3 social network. decent.land is built using Arweave for permanent storage and NEAR for user-facing contracts.

EV Initiative	website	Activation	Canada
EV charging network in the Americas with a web3 value creation mechanism for the drivers. Team has installed over 100 charging slots in the last six months and plans to integrate NEAR for settlements while increasing the installation of charging stations.

1.3 Completed projects & Milestone data 
Grant agreements are structured with milestones. Depending on the selected grant track, a grant can have from 1 to 5 milestones. For more information the funding team invites you to explore our milestone guide. 

Projects having completed a milestone  ☑️	53
Projects having completed final milestone ✅	9
Projects completed per category 

Infrastructure / Wallets             3

Gaming / Metaverse                   3

DAOs                   1

Other                                2

Infrastructure / Wallets projects 

MyNearWallet	website 	Advanced Builder	Switzerland 
An inheritor of the official NEAR wallet. The most well-known and feature filled web wallet for the NEAR Ecosystem.

BytePay	website 	Builder 	China
Coding to earn, sell open-source product as NFT. BytePay is a platform that supports paid tasks to complete open-source projects on Github. Not only can you  code to earn but also sell open-source product as NFT.

NEAR Blockchain Event Webhooks	website	Builder 	United Kingdom 
The development of an MVP for a NEAR blockchain event push notification service. DApp developers would be able to subscribe to their contract events in their backend without having to implement their own indexer, instead implementing webhook endpoints to which this service would push updates.

Gaming / Metaverse projects

Reality NEAR	/ 	Advanced Builder	United States
Reality Near is a multi-metaverse that will combine Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality technologies so that users can experience their different enhanced realities like never before.

MeowRush	website 	Builder	/
MeowRush is a PVP multiplayer game on the NEAR blockchain with different tournament modes: Race, Battle Royale, Obstacles, and Arcade. MeowRush is going to be integrated into the Meowverse metaverse with a Multi-chain ecosystem.

Glory Games Worlds	website 	Builder	Singapore
GameFi for the masses, built on their own native Unreal game engine  with Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality engine.

DAO’s

Mute DAO 	website 	Builder	United Kingdom
Mute is building a safe and secure community that focuses on protecting members of the crypto community by providing accurate and up-to-date information on projects, risk assessments, and education. 

Other projects

SharpShark 	website 	Builder 	Netherland
SharpShark is a WEB3 copyright protection service that helps businesses protect and monetize their textual, visual, and other copyrightable content.

Double	website 	Builder 	United States
A decentralized co-op platform for AMM liquidity providing that will double LP investors’ return on invested capital while at the same time boost liquidity for projects’ tokens.

1.4 Effectiveness of the funding program  
Total external funding (overall amount) came from projects that have received a grant (around 40%).

2. External funding in the NEAR Ecosystem
This section provides information about external funding in the NEAR ecosystem

2 closed projects in Q4 ‘22 – ($6.2M)
2 finalizing rounds
20 new fundraising processes kicked off 
22 VC intros made
Closed Rounds (Quarter-to-Date)

EmpireDAO – Raised a $2.8m seed round with participation from NEAR Foundation to build a global community starting with a flagship location in NYC. Please stop by the NEAR space at EmpireDAO if you are ever in NYC! 
t2.world – Raised a $3.4m seed round led by Inflection and Archetype to empower readers and writers to grow their communities in the Web3 space.
3. Ecosystem highlights  
NEARWEEK is the one-stop-shop for all NEAR related news. Each weekly newsletter and edition is made possible via news contributions from the NEARWEEK community to the NEWS DAO. Subscribe or visit NEARWEEK.com to get your weekly dose of news from the NEARverse!

For the month of October we invite you to read through the following newsletters : 

Newsletter 78 

Newsletter 79 

Newsletter 80

Newsletter 81 
NEAR’s Road to Decentralization: Empowering the Guild Community
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 11, 2022
The NEAR network is reimagining how decentralized applications and platforms are built, playing a major role in transforming the internet from the centralized Web2 to an open-source, community-driven Web3. Amidst the NEAR community’s growth and continued decentralization, its guild system has emerged as a significant contributor to building more open, interconnected, and collaborative projects within the NEAR ecosystem. 

Let’s take a look at what NEAR Guilds are up to in 2022, and why the Guild system is so vital to NEAR’s continued success. 

Decentralizing NEAR’s development and growth
Within the NEAR ecosystem, Guilds are communities that work towards common, specific goals, from the core protocol development to the projects being built atop it. The current roster of Guilds spans multiple continents and numerous industries. 

The Guild system’s growing capability, size, and diversity is crucial to the NEAR blockchain and ecosystem future development. Guilds are already helping decentralize NEAR’s operations and growth by enabling smaller teams of developers to work together to improve different aspects of the protocol.

In other words, many small groups of NEAR community members, enthusiasts and entrepreneurs with a variety 0f professional experiences and skill sets, are collaborating on specific goals to build, maintain, and improve the NEAR ecosystem. 

Introducing the NEAR Guilds community
The NEAR Guilds community consists of more than 73 projects, each with its own vision and mission. Let’s take a look at four Guilds that are working across different industries to further develop the NEAR ecosystem. 

Data Guild
Data Guild is on a mission to increase visibility of the NEAR protocol and ecosystem by creating tools and products that NEAR community members can easily use. The Data Guild essentially works to expand the accessibility of NEAR data infrastructure, tools, and resources for all contributors. It does this by bringing together open web contributors who can create resources that provide trustworthy data. 

Some of the team’s biggest achievements include gathering leaders of NEAR data projects to coordinate collaborations with other guilds. The Data Guild is doing this through subgraph tutorials; contributing directly to several data products, including nearstats.com and DAOstats.io; and successfully onboarding and promoting leading developers and data projects, including Dapplooker, stats.gallery, soda.com, finear.xyz, and Metrics Dao. 

James Waugh, Coordinator of NEAR Data Guild, explains that the community could use more clarity on governance of the Guilds program as well as NEAR Foundation’s involvement with DAOs. 

“Guilds are coordinating to support the NEAR ecosystem via better community governance,” says Waugh. ‘We are looking forward to more guilds and DAOs using NEAR data.” 

Legal Guild
Legal Guild is an independent, multi-disciplinary global network of lawyers bringing legal advice to the crypto world. The guild’s expertise spans different fields and focuses on giving recommendations to entrepreneurs, developers, projects, and communities. It does this by providing expertise on legal matters pertaining to DAOs, smart contracts, blockchain, tokenization, privacy, cyber security, intellectual property for digital assets, and more. 

The Legal Guild’s ultimate goal? Reshape how legal services are provided in the crypto industry. 

“We believe that the empowerment of the community is key for building in a decentralized world,”  the Legal Guild’s mission reads. “Our playbooks, use cases, and expertise are a manifestation of our mission: to help blockchain-based projects navigate complex legal issues.”

CuraDAO
CuraDAO is an art studio that aims to launch and develop in-house creative projects in collaboration with creatives and partners. CuraDAO’s goal is to be an engineering-driven guild—one that explores and experiments with smart contracts for creative purposes. The guild has an emphasis on design and is exploring ways to creatively use NFTs. 

In terms of challenges, the team is competing for creative talent with both Web2 platforms and other Web3 blockchains. This will get better with time, as developers from both domains realize how easy, fast, and cheap it is to build on  NEAR.

“NEAR has a strong vision for community and culture [and] guilds are a great representation,” said Yassine Sania, a founding member at CuraDAO. “We see a guild as an organized community that can leverage crypto tools for decision-making and value creation.”

CleanNFTs
CleanNFTs is a collective within the NEAR ecosystem whose mission is to educate and raise awareness about energy-efficient blockchains and environmentally-friendly NFT (non-fungible token) platforms. 

After assembling on Discord in 2021 to discuss issues with Ethereum’s Proof-of-Work (PoW) energy usage, this guild of artists and NFT aficionados ramping up its community education efforts at minimizing the environmental impacts of NFT minting. The guild does this by curating information and reading resources on its website. 

The CleanNFTs guild operates under a general consensus: that NFTs themselves do not produce carbon emissions but some cryptocurrencies use energy-intensive resources for mining. CleanNFTs members also agree that the NFT art platforms running on more energy-efficient Proof-of-Stake (PoS) networks are, at present, the most environmentally-sustainable option for creating NFTs. 

A brief look at NEAR Hub, NEAR’s virtual world 
Beyond the NEAR Guilds ecosystem, community contributors also created NEAR Hub, a metaverse (or, NEARverse) that allows users to log into a virtual experience using just their NEAR wallets, with a clear focus on user control and ownership over their data and assets. 

The idea for NEAR Hub came from the Human Guild, a guild started in 2021 that is focused on supporting Web3 games building on NEAR. According to their website, the Human Guild is dedicated to establishing strongly-knit crypto communities, onboarding newcomers, and ushering in what it calls the “gaming revolution.”

“Everybody should be able to earn by doing what they love. The mission is to help people getting paid in crypto and getting involved in the online economy,” said Aliaksandr (Sasha) Hudzilin, co-founder of the guild.

NEAR Hub received funding from the Human Guild and launched in December 2021. The platform offers its metaverse experience through its product, “Rooms”, which users can enter with their avatar. Each Room experience is themed and built around a certain idea or collaboration with a partner project or guild in the NEAR ecosystem. 

NEAR Hub’s goal is to onboard new users and make it “a portal to everything in the NEAR ecosystem,” according to co-founders @chronear and Jeff G. The platform is meant to be a space for users to learn about all aspects of NEAR from education, gaming, NFTs, decentralized finance, and infrastructure projects. 

The Hub is significant because it is trying to make decentralized application interactions more meaningful for users by giving them the chance to hang out with other community members, build networks, and express themselves creatively in the process.

NEAR Guilds moving forward
NEAR’s guild system is playing a vital role in the growth and further decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem. Each of the current guilds has a unique mission and purpose, doing what it can to develop different aspects of NEAR.

The number of guilds also continues to grow on a regular basis, as more teams of passionate NEAR enthusiasts band together to join NEAR’s road to decentralization.  Over time, Guilds may evolve to adapt to new developments on the NEAR protocol and the wider Web3 network. 

To stay current on the NEAR Guilds popping up on the ecosystem, check out Guild News. Want to build your own? Learn how at the Start a Guild page. 


Catch Us If You Can | October 4th, 2019
COMMUNITY
October 5, 2019
Devcon is here and we hope to meet as many of you as possible! If you did not get a chance to connect with us in Shanghai or Seoul blockchain week, we are going to be in Tokyo, Osaka for Devcon, and right after in London for more hackathons, presentations and panels. Check out our events page for more information on how to find us. 

Ambassadors to the next challenge! Our ambassador network is growing and doubled throughout September to over 60 ambassadors and counting. We had some great events organised, including in Prague and Shanghai. Get in touch with us to connect to ambassadors and start your own community. 

Illia introducing NEAR in Shanghai. Meetup organised by one of our ambassadors Yuan Jun
COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
Ambassadors are crushing it with translating, creating and sharing content. More to follow soon! Yuan Jun, Buster and Jan hosted the first Ambassador meetups. New ambassador competitions coming up, make sure to sign-up if you are interested in becoming an ambassador. 

Upcoming events

We are at Devcon! If you see us, come and chat. We are looking forward to meeting you in person;
Illia is going to represent NEAR at Wasm Chains (NEAR, Polkadot, Spacemesh);
NEAR is hosting a Panel on Cross-app communication (Ethereum Serenity, NEAR, Polkadot, Cosmos).
Sasha, participating in a panel discussion on blockchain gaming solutions
WRITING AND CONTENT
Have you ever looked into ways to establish decentralised identities? Check out our latest blog post on decentralised identities. We provide an overview on the work that is currently done by governments, businesses, and the decentralised web to make identity documentation more accessible. 

Use case: Distributed Identity Solutions https://pages.near.org/blog/use-case-distributed-identity-solutions/
Peter’s overview of Swarmwise — ideas that we model our community after https://sophonaut.com/2019/09/25/swarmwise/
Canaan from Stardust on what is it like to build a blockchain startup https://medium.com/stardustplatform/part-4-life-of-a-blockchain-entrepreneur-money-on-my-mind-5bd0461bcc2f
ENGINEERING UPDATE
We’ve had some fun creating a few crypto projects; check-out our pitch-deck-generator and the bearprotocol. Here are the highlights of what’s been added in the last two weeks:

93 PRs across 19 repos by 17 authors. Featured repos:nearcore,nearlib,near-shell,near-wallet,near-bindgen, near-runtime-ts, crypto-corgis, borsh, and near-explorer.

Genesis block design;
NEP-4 Market-integrated Token Standard;
Adapt nearlib staging to support master branch from nearcore with legacy tx result in nearlib;
Account Detail Page added to explorer;
Link account names (sender/receiver) to /accounts/<name> in list of transactions;
Move away from compiler and create new near compiler frontend in near-runtime-ts;
Several UI and storage changes in crypto corgis;
Replace env_test feature with wasm target conditional compilation in near-bindgen;
Manual Recovery w/ Seed Phrase in near-wallet.
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!

If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Launches Kenya Regional Hub to Support Blockchain Projects and Talent in Africa
COMMUNITY
May 9, 2022
NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce the launch of Kenya Regional Hub in partnership with Sankore, a Kenya-based NEAR Guild. The Kenya Regional Hub will accelerate blockchain innovation, education, and talent development across the African continent. 

The hub, led by Sankore founder Kevin Imani and a core team of four members, will organize events, launch an academy and incubator, and be part of the Sankore Bounty ecosystem. 

“We are thrilled to be working with NEAR to educate and nurture talented individuals to become world-class blockchain developers,” says Kevin Imani. “Our dream is to lead the way in blockchain innovations in providing solutions to Africa’s biggest problems. The NEAR Protocol allows tomorrow’s brightest developers to build custom solutions with scalability, security, and transparency and this hub is the next step in turning our shared vision into reality.”

How NEAR Meets kickstarted the Kenya Regional Hub
Sankore founder Kevin Imani speaking at a Kenya Regional Hub event.
Crucially, the new Kenya Regional Hub didn’t come out of nowhere. The Sankore-led NEAR Meets had overwhelming attendance, and were already hubs for locals gathering for blockchain and NEAR protocol education. 

The NEAR Meets a space to share ideas and create new Open Web opportunities. As such, these events created networking opportunities amongst both locals and the larger NEAR community. 

At the recent “Harnessing Opportunities in Web3” in Nakuru, a NEAR-Certified Developer helped local Kenyan developers become certified NEAR developers. The hub’s education arm already has strong connections with local universities, and registered 77 students in the NEAR Certified Developer Workshops. Seven other students are currently in NEAR Certified Analysts Workshops, while six students are already certified NEAR developers.

Incubating blockchain projects in Africa
Attendees at a Kenya Regional Hub event.
With Sankore’s track record as a Kenyan project incubator, the Kenya Regional Hub will hit the ground running. 

Sankore created local traction by supporting several forward-thinking blockchain projects. Kilimo Shwari, for instance, helps local farmers hedge against agricultural uncertainties, like bad weather and Kenya’s recent locust invasion. Kilimo Shwari’s smart contract-based insurance gathers data on these and other uncertainties, and then automatically compensates farmers in advance. 

Another Sankore-backed project, Ledja, tackles document fraud throughout Africa. In partnership with local universities, Ledja is using the NEAR protocol to digitize and verify qualifications and legal documents. 

Africa’s rapid cryptocurrency adoption
Attendees at a Kenya Regional Hub event.
Over the past decade, African countries have been undergoing a rapid digital revolution. The continent’s cryptocurrency adoption jumped 1,200% from July 2020 to June 2021, the fastest adoption rate in the world. 

“We are excited by the potential avenues throughout Africa for blockchain solutions, which come from innovation in development, education and talent,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This hub represents a unique opportunity to partner with local talent not only for the opportunities that we know exist today but also for the opportunities yet to be created in the future.”

The Kenya Regional Hub will demonstrate just how how easy it is to onboard into NEAR’s fast, low-cost, and safe ecosystem. They will find a host of DeFi projects, DAOs, NFT marketplaces, and more on NEAR. By showcasing these vibrant NEAR ecosystem projects, the Kenya hub will help unleash the next wave of Web3 innovation. 

NEAR Foundation is investing heavily in regional hubs around the world. Kenya joins a growing list of hubs in China, the Balkans, and Ukraine, with many more in the works. Led by great local entrepreneurs, NEAR Hubs operate as independent legal entities in full alignment with the foundation’s mission and objectives. 

All regional hubs are vital to onboarding users into the NEAR ecosystem to help build a multi-chain, open web future. 


NEAR Launches Infrastructure Committee with $4 Million in Funding
COMMUNITY
April 8, 2024
NEAR has seen a massive surge in users and transactions over the last few months. It’s important to have a smooth-running blockchain for project and founder expansion. Today, the NEAR Foundation launches the Infrastructure Committee, a new initiative aimed to strengthen NEAR’s Key Infrastructure. With $4 million earmarked for infrastructure projects, the initiative is meant to support the success of NEAR projects while distributing funds and sourcing projects in an open, transparent way.

What is Key Infrastructure? It includes RPC nodes, relayers, indexers, bridges, wallets, load balancers, and oracles. Also, NEAR should be listed correctly on all the DEX tools available. Incidents and outages need to be easily reported and fixed.

The committee is made up of ecosystem leaders and NEAR partners from across core NEAR orgs. Its goals are to:

Decentralize decision-making
Enhance critical infrastructure
Streamline efforts for greater clarity and decentralization
The committee primarily focuses on proposals, with multiple Requests For Proposals (RFPs) planned to meet important ecosystem needs. These proposals will undergo review and asynchronous voting by the committee.

Progress of the Infrastructure Committee
The Infrastructure Committee has already funded five critical infrastructure proposals:

Jutsu IDE infrastructure implementation (AI development environment)
FASTNEAR infrastructure services (new RPC nodes and custom endpoints)
Aurora Web 3.0 Wallet Support Services
The building of a Treasury App for use by governing committees
An audit of the Ledger integrations
The committee also inherited some projects that it will now actively manage:

Aurora RPC SpeedUp
MyNEARWallet maintenance by Meteor
With over half of the allocated $4 million budget remaining, there is an open invitation to the community to bring forward innovative infrastructure projects such as:

Faster RPC Nodes
Specific common endpoints to replace broad RPC queries
New bridges to improve cross-chain transactions and increase the number of chains supported
ICANN-compliant DNS and expansion of top-level domains
Focused relayers to support gas-free and other specialized relayer needs
The committee encourages community members to contribute their ideas, proposals, and feedback, and welcomes a range of perspectives from founders, developers, and NEAR enthusiasts on how to improve the foundations of NEAR technology. 

The current Infrastructure Committee is comprised of the following members:

Abhishek Vaidyanathan, NEAR Foundation (serving as a non-voting meeting Chair)
Alex Shevchenko, Aurora Labs
Bowen Wang, Director of Protocol, Pagoda
Vlad Frolov, DevHub
Sandi Fatic, Calimero
Eric Winer, Pagoda
Illia Polosukhin, NEAR Foundation (serving as an ad-hoc member on an as-needed basis)
Christopher Donovan, NEAR Foundation (serving as an ad-hoc member on an as-needed basis)
The Working Group comprises the following admins and advisors:

Project Oversight – Konrad Merino, Head of Blockchain Success, NEAR Foundation
Product Manager – Gautham Ravi, Sr. Product Manager, Pagoda
Project Manager – Trentin C Bergeron, Sr. Technical Program Manager, Pagoda
Technical BD – Vikas Pandey, Success & Partner Engineering, NEAR Foundation
Technical Advisor – Robert Tsia, SRE Manager, Pagoda
Technical Advisor – Ernesto Cejas Padilla, Sr. SRE, Pagoda
Technical Advisor – Firat Sertgoz, Engineering Manager, Pagoda
Technical Advisor – Patrick Engvall, Sr. Engineer, Pagoda
Technical Advisor – Pierre Leguen, Software Engineer, NEAR Foundation Finance
Broadcast MC & Project Advisor – Marcus Ribeiro, Ecosystem Relations, NEAR Foundation
For those looking to participate, the Interim Proposal and Funding Process provides a comprehensive guide on how to submit proposals. To foster transparency and public engagement, the committee has established clear processes to track and discuss proposals openly. 

The community can view the public tracking of proposals document and participate in public discussions, including announcements of Requests for Proposals (RFPs). The committee’s meeting notes will be shared with the community to maintain openness about the committee’s decisions and discussions. 

Engaging the Community and Fostering Collaboration
To facilitate community engagement, anyone interested can join the discussion on the Github repo, which will serve as the hub for suggestions, collaboration, and support among members interested in contributing to NEAR infrastructure.
The Infrastructure Mandate & Charter and Working Group Details will offer additional insights into the committee’s mission, structure, and ongoing projects. These resources are designed to educate and inspire community members to contribute their skills and ideas towards building a more robust and scalable NEAR ecosystem.

Future Plans for the NEAR Infrastructure Committee
As NEAR continues to grow, so will the necessity for robust infrastructure to support an increasing number of transactions and users. Future enhancements include the introduction of a more sophisticated incident management system and post-mortem processes for infrastructure outages. 

The development of a Blockchain Operating System (BOS)-based app for proposal management will be another significant move towards optimizing the efficiency of the funding process. This upgrade will streamline the proposal and funding workflow, making it easier for community members to submit and manage their projects. 

The committee’s work will also support NEAR’s growth and chain abstraction efforts, ensuring the blockchain can handle the anticipated surge in traffic as more users join the ecosystem. 

Those interested in getting involved with the Infrastructure Committee can join the Working Group Discussion on GitHub to collaborate on initiatives, discuss proposals and RFPs, or ask questions.


Berry Club: A Fun, Creative Example of a DeFi Yield Farming App on NEAR Blockchain
COMMUNITY
February 12, 2021
What is Berry Club?
Berry Club is a DeFi app designed to let users have fun creating shared pixel art while farming token rewards. Berry Club achieves this with the elegant use of tokens called Avocados, Bananas, and Cucumbers. It’s also a great use of NEAR Protocol’s built-in features that aren’t found in other blockchains, such as automatic fee payments to smart contract creators. It started as a DeFi proof of concept, and has since grown into a popular community project on NEAR.

In this post we’ll frame up how NEAR and Berry Club fit into the rapidly growing DeFi ecosystem. In the follow-up article we’ll walk through details of Berry Club and share my experiments using it for farming.

DeFi and Yield Farming
To be broad, DeFi (or decentralized finance) is a suite of smart contracts that brings traditional financial services to the blockchain. This includes lending and borrowing, exchange services, payments services, and much more. DeFi allows users to earn passive yield on their native blockchain assets (and, increasingly, tokenize their real world assets on the blockchain, too). DeFi has also been one of the largest growth sectors in the cryptocurrency market in the past few months. It wouldn’t be appropriate to mention earning a yield in DeFi without mentioning yield farming. 

What is yield farming? To be even more broad, yield farming involves distribution of a token to the users of a smart contract in order to incentivize a specific behavior. One of the most common examples of yield farming is distributing a token to users who provide liquidity to decentralized exchange pools such as Ethereum’s Uniswap. The users who deposit their funds into the smart contract benefit from cash flow denominated in the token, and the smart contract creators benefit from increased usage of their application (and liquidity, in the case of Uniswap). To generalize, most of the DeFi use cases on Ethereum are financially related, but not all. 

Yield Farming on NEAR
Some Berry Farm shared artwork. Each pixel is earning a yield for its owner.
In the case of Berry Club, tokens are distributed in order to encourage community creation of constantly-evolving artwork. Berry Farm and Banana Swap are partner contracts that allow automated exchange for Berry Farm tokens.

Because of the unique design of the NEAR blockchain, the combination of Berry Club and Berry Farm can benefit both the users and the smart contract creators in an innovative way. Benefits are paid from increased usage of the application in the form of distribution of smart contract rewards to both creators and token holders. This is something that is not possible on Ethereum in its current implementation, and provides another great incentive for users and developers to start experimenting with NEAR. 


Popular images are less likely to be overwritten by other artists. The longer the pixel stays on the board, the more yield its owner will earn.

Additionally, Banana Swap is what’s known as an automated market maker (AMM) – similar to Uniswap that was mentioned earlier – but simpler, and without the ability to add liquidity. While Berry Club and related contracts use tokens that are named after berries, make no mistake: this suite of smart contracts allows users to earn a real return on their NEAR tokens while making art on the blockchain. 

May the best artist win!

NEAR vs Ethereum
Certainly, Ethereum has the most DeFi applications with the most use cases as it stands today. But how does DeFi on NEAR compare to DeFi on Ethereum? For starters, yield farming at Berry Club is actually really fun and can bring out the creative side in even the most left-brained of us. 

The complexity of DeFi in and of itself can be a turn-off for some users, and a boring user interface does nothing to help with that user pain point, whereas Berry Farm is inherently art-based. Additionally, profit calculations are made much easier by the predictable and low transaction fees on NEAR. Ethereum transaction fees have been extremely volatile in the past few months, not to mention absurdly expensive, and can become a considerable expense for users that wish to yield farm on Ethereum. 

While the ecosystem of DeFi dApps on NEAR is still growing (Mooniswap is building on NEAR now, too), the ease of use and speed of DeFi dApps on NEAR cannot be understated, especially as somebody who often has large parts of their day tied up waiting for pending transactions to clear on the Ethereum blockchain. 

The Future of Berry Club
We had a conversation with Evgeny (AKA “Eugene THE DREAM”), the creator of Berry Club, about the future of the project. He didn’t want to make any major changes to the economics or functionality of Berry Club in its current form. The addition of low opacity pixels is actually the second iteration of Berry Club, meant to encourage users to preserve the amazing artwork that others have created. 

We asked him if it would be possible to “scale” Berry Club by adjusting the size of the board (in the event that even more users start to use the application and yield dries up). Instead of merely changing the economics and size of the board, Evgeny described a potential future version of Berry Club that could include Dencentraland-esque plots of land. Ownership of the land would be achieved via non-fungible tokens, and could be rented out to hard working farmers. This, combined with some sort of incentivization system for rewarding the best artwork (we didn’t dive too deep into it), could further expand the Banana economy, and show off some more cool features that are in the works for the NEAR mainnet. 

Berry Club Points the Way
That’s a brief overview of Berry Club’s purpose and features: a DeFi app that uses shared pixel art as a way to explore yield farming on the NEAR blockchain. It uses unique features of NEAR to point the way for numerous future DeFi apps on NEAR. And it’s not just for fun. You can earn real yield. In the next article, We’ll show you how.

Join us for a more detailed walkthrough of Berry Club in Part 2: How Does The Berry Club Yield Farming App Work?

Interested in building with NEAR, or just want to chat with a like-tribe community? Head on over to our Discord, follow us on Twitter, read up on our Forum and don’t forget to sign up for our newsletter.
NEAR CLI 3.0.0 Released
DEVELOPERS
December 2, 2021
Our command-line interface tool just got a new major version release that introduced some big changes. NEAR’s DevRel team would like to take a moment to go over these changes to not only show you the changelog but explain why these changes were made. This is a new initiative to give our developer community an insight into our decision-making process as well as a better understanding of how NEAR works.

Deployment changes
– near deploy now warns users if there is an existing contract deployed. (PR #883)

near deploy (used for deploying smart contracts to a given account) now has an added prompt warning users if an existing contract has already been deployed. NEAR accounts can only have one contract deployed per account, but we frequently saw developers would accidentally overwrite existing contracts, especially when first onboarding to our platform. This prompt should help folks understand the singular contract concept and mitigate any accidental state changes to existing smart contracts.  

Access Keys changes
– near delete-key now prompts for confirmation of key deletion. (PR #890)

Similar to the near deploy update, near delete-key (used for deleting an access key from an account) now prompts users for confirmation of this action. It will also ask the user to make sure this key is not for a recovery method. In addition, if you are deleting the last full-access key it will give a second prompt warning the user that this will fully lock the account/contract. Deleting all full-access keys will disable the ability to recover access to an account and should have an extra warning layer to prevent an accidental ownership lockout.

New flags
– `-f, –force`  flags added to override warning prompts. (PR #890)


The two big changes introduced with this CLI release are only new for those who are already using scripts to run the above commands (deploy and delete-key). For those who want to upgrade to NEAR CLI 3.0.0 and still use scripting for these commands, we have added the -f or –force flags to override the warning prompts.
NEARCON ‘23 Lifts Off: Start Your Journey into the Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 8, 2023
Lisbon is about to light up as NEARCON ‘23 kicks off in the heart of the city. The stars are aligned for Day One to kick things off in spectacular fashion with a wide array of sessions, speakers, and activities you won’t want to miss.

Doors open at 9:00 AM for breakfast, so make sure to head on over bright an early, grab a bite with your fellow NEARCON-goers. And stay connected throughout the conference with Calimero Chat for private, decentralized comms on the NEAR blockchain.

So start off the most iconic NEARCON yet and catch some of the most intriguing and impactful happenings on what promises to be an epic first day of NEARCON ‘23.

Can’t miss speaker sessions 
Speaker stages ramp up at 10:45 AM until 5:30 PM, so set your alarms for an invigorating start to NEARCON ‘23 with sessions that promise to shape your understanding of the open web and the NEAR ecosystem.

NEAR: The Open Web Stack (2:00 PM – 2:30 PM at Layer 1 Stage). Join Illia Polosukhin, CEO of NEAR Foundation and NEAR co-founder, as he shares his strategic vision on what’s next for the NEAR ecosystem.
Regulating the Open Web (1:40 PM – 2:00 PM, Layer 1 Stage). Michael Casey from CoinDesk and NEAR Foundation COO Chris Donovan take a forward-thinking look at regulatory headwinds and regional approaches to open web regulations.
Innovations in AI, Account Abstraction, and NFTs Today (3:00PM – 3:15 PM, Layer 2 stage). If you’re into the intersection of AI and NFTs, Nate Grier of Mintbase’s talk is one you won’t want to miss.
Marketing Through Web3 Mechanisms at DevHub and Beyond (4:15 PM – 4:30 PM,
Block Zero Stage). Shardog’s Joe Spano shares how the open web provides unique opportunities to create relationships while allowing users to retain control and privacy.

More speaker highlights
The Interop Future (11:30 AM – 12:00PM at Layer 1 Stage). An in-depth panel including Aurora founder Alex Shevchenko, and Mariano Sorgente of a16z will dive into  NEAR’s critical role in driving open web interoperability.
Unstore Your Data for the AI Revolution (11:20 AM – 11:40AM at Block Zero Stage). Don’t miss Jonathan Bryce and Polina Aladina from OnMachina as they delve into the future of data and AI, exploring new ways of working with unstructured data.
Anjali Young’s Web3 Advertising Revolution (1:15 PM – 1:30 PM, Layer 2 Stage). Dive into the world of advertising and the open web with Anjali Young from Collab.Land. She’ll illustrate how Web3 is redefining brand-customer relationships through community engagement, NFTs, and token-gated communities.
Richard Muirhead’s Vision of the Open Economy (4:30PM – 4:45 PM, Layer 1 Stage). Fabric Ventures’ Richard Muirhead presents a compelling vision of 2023’s open economy, discussing the profound impact of token economics and the massive impact of AI on decentralized economies.
Conclude your day enriched with insights from these thought leaders of the open web, and get revved up for the evening networking and festivities.

Hackathon and HZN1 in full force
There’s also tons of activity for builders, founders, and developers during Day One. Things kick off at 9:00AM with the all day HZ1 Retreat for Founders. It’s an invite-only event so if you’re on the list, get ready for a full day of jumpstarting your vision supported by the best open web experts until 5:00PM.

And then there’s what promises to be an epic Hackathon. Make sure you’re registered, submit your projects, and join your fellow builders over at the Hacker HQ. Get the full low-down over at the official NEARCON ‘23 Hackathon webpage, and kick things off with a full day of hacking and B.O.S building.

Finally, there’s the invite-only Validator Session at Hacker HQ from 1:00-4:00PM, so if you’re registered for that don’t forget to check it out and participate.

Must attend side events
SailGP Happy Hour (5:45 – 7:00 PM, SailGP Lounge, Layer 2 Stage): Wind down from a dynamic day of sessions and celebrate the community spirit of NEARCON ‘23 with one of the pioneers of Web3 and fan engagement..
Opening Night Party (8:00 PM, Pavilhão Carlos Lopes): Don’t miss Day One’s biggest networking event, sponsored by Cosmose AI and BitGo, where the energy of NEARCON ‘23 will be on full display under the Lisbon stars.
Shout out to the Day One sponsors
A heartfelt thanks to our sponsors that highlighted Day One of NEARCON ‘23:

SailGP
BitGo
Cosmose AI
PlayEmber
Aurora Labs
Day One of NEARCON promises to be an amazing kick off to an iconic gathering of minds, builders, and creators in the open web. From interoperability and cryptonomics to drinks and brainstorming well into the night, make sure to mark your calendars for all of the notable speakers and sessions that will make Day One a simply can’t miss.
NEAR Community Update: Nov 29, 2018
COMMUNITY
November 29, 2018
It’s official: as promised, we’re now open source.

As Illia announced in the accompanying post, this is the first milestone on the path to TestNet and it’s intended to help us build a more engaged early developer community. This early community is important because they will help us fulfill our commitment to creating the most developer-friendly toolset out there.

Speaking of community, the ball is officially rolling on our in-person community here in SF and it’s going to pick up speed quickly.

Speaking and Events
We’ve focused primarily on building out our local event series which addresses not just developers but a broad ecosystem of designers, product people and startuppers too.

Recent Highlights

We kicked off our cross-disciplinary San Francisco Meetup group with a look at the state of the ecosystem. Expecting the recording shortly.
We attended a sharding panel with the Stanford Blockchain Club on Nov 28th alongside OmniLedger.
Upcoming Events

[SF] Dec 5: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Start Here! Deconstructing the Blockchain Ecosystem
[SF] Dec 12: Improving Blockchain Developer Experience: When UX Meets Developer Tools
Writing and Content
Aliaksandr Hudzilin started a series on the promise of blockchain in the music industry
Engineering Highlights
I’ve already provided the lead on engineering highlights — we officially open-sourced our core client repos, including:

The NEAR Studio web IDE, which allows you to play with writing contracts using TypeScript in a web window. The interface is still preliminary.
NEARCore repo including the local DevNet code.
This is in the context of the following upcoming milestones:

DevNet: Finish building out the developer experience for our blockchain. We are progressing on this milestone pretty well, but there is still more work to be done.
“Minimum Viable Blockchain” (MVB): a fully functioning blockchain that can provide a platform for running experiments on governance, economics and user experience. This version will only have a Beacon Chain consensus.
Shard Chains: Add sharding of state and processing to MVB.
How You Can Get Involved
If you want to stay up to date with what we build at NEAR, use the following channels:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp, we have open conversations on tech, governance and economics of blockchain on our discord.
https://upscri.be/633436/
Near at ETHDenver Highlights
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 2, 2023
Near will see a number of partnership and project announcements at Near Day and ETHDenver. Over a 1,000 people are attending Near Day, with many more visiting the Near booth and dropping in on ETHDenver talks and panels featuring Near ecosystem figures. Beyond the many engaging talks and projects demos, there was also an ecosystem party, side events, a hackathon, and much more. 

Let’s take a quick look at a few of the latest announcements from Near at ETHDenver. 

A number of other announcements will be rolling out over the course of Near Day and ETHDenver, so stay tuned for those below in the coming days.

Few and Far raises $10.5 million in funding
Few and Far, a leading Digital Collectibles web3 platform, announced today that it has raised $10.5 million in a funding round led by Pantera Capital, the leading blockchain investment firm.The raise marks a significant milestone for Few and Far, which has been experiencing exponential growth since launch. 

The new funds will help expand the platform’s capabilities, enhance user experience, and increase the number of Web3 developers. IP owners also stand to benefit from the platform. Few and Far features an all-inclusive platform available to carry out everything related to next generation digital collectibles, including a suite of developer tools. 

The round also included top VCs, Cypher Capital, Huobi Ventures, Hypersphere, Metaweb, Mantis Partners, K5 Global and many more. 

Near Blockchain Operating System now live on Alpha.Near.Org
Read the full Near Blockchain Operating System announcement here

For Near Day on March 2nd, Near launched alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com — a composable frontend for Web3. It will allow end users to easily and frictionlessly discover all of Web3’s possibilities in one seamless experience. It will also empower developers to create and code interfaces in a single environment with the ability to fork a host of components to build apps faster and more efficiently than ever before.

Anyone in the Open Web ecosystem can create their own frontends (i.e., their own versions of alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com), compatible with the blockchain of their choice. This means that builders from any ecosystem can create components in just a few lines of code, and take advantage of fast onboarding to help make new and custom Web3 experiences.

This is an industry first. With the addition of composable frontends to the tech stack, Near now becomes the Blockchain Operating System, allowing seamless, one-time onboarding and removing friction points like making accounts for every experience, while supercharging development from a collection of over 1,800 components. 

Alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com is the first step in Near’s Blockchain Operating System journey. It’s the Alpha version, where builders can see the frontend come to life. 

Try out the Alpha at alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com to experience the world’s first Blockchain Operating System — a revolutionary moment in Web3. If you’re a developer, see how easy it is to fork components and create new experiences. If you’re an end user, see how easy it is to explore Web3 experiences, social, and news all in one place. 

The Blockchain Operating System is Near and it’s here. #NearistheBOS

Flow Carbon announces carbon-market ecosystem built on Near
Near and Flowcarbon, the pioneering climate technology company, announced the launch of a carbon-market ecosystem that will enable carbon credits to be traded on the Near network through Flowcarbon’s tokenized carbon credits. With this collaboration, Near will realize its vision of becoming a carbon-negative blockchain. As part of this partnership, Near plans to offset its carbon footprint through Flowcarbon.

Flow Carbon’s carbon credit token will be launched on both Near and Aurora, an Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) built on Near. Validators will be set up for the purpose of offsetting, and large Near holders will be able to stake with these validators.

Designed to make carbon offsetting more accessible and transparent, this partnership will help Near become carbon-negative, solidifying Near’s position as one of the top players in Regenerative Finance (ReFi). 

With Stacksports, parents and athletes can mint royalty-free NFTs
StackNFT is teaming up with Near to offer an NFT platform that allows youth athletes of all ages and skill levels to create and capture their favorite sports memories digitally. 

Youth sports parents and athletes can now mint royalty-free NFTs effortlessly, without any advanced knowledge of the minting or wallet creation process. Just upload, decorate, and mint. Parents and athletes can also mint NFTs knowing that Near is a carbon-neutral, environmentally friendly blockchain, which supports several forest protection and restoration projects.

StackNFT is owned and operated by Stack Sports, a global technology leader in SaaS platform offerings for the sports industry, with nearly 50 million users in 35 countries. From little league to the pros, Stack Sports powers the many moments that create the story of your journey through sports.

Calimero’s private shard infrastructure now live on Near
Calimero.network, a secure private shard infrastructure provider announced that after several months running in a stealth mode, during which it was tested by beta testers and partners, is ready to serve customers with unique blockchain power and a Web2 interface.

With roots in the Near Protocol, Calimero is a high performance blockchain that launched on mainnet in 2020. Founded by Sandi Fatic and Mario Halambek, two of the first infrastructure engineers at Near, Calimero allows projects to launch their own shard in a matter of minutes. In launching a private shard, users can be certain of the network’s performance and security, which is managed by Calimero itself.

Calimero is targeting so-called “Web2.5”, seeking a way to connect Web3 and Web2 worlds. For Web3 startups, Calimero provides a unique way to scale their products and leverage the privacy features, giving access to target Enterprise customers and getting access to new audiences. For classic Enterprises, Calimero offers a way to build new products and onboard chosen Web3 mechanics to find new areas to grow their businesses with growth rates compared to DeFi and NFT markets.

With the cheapest option starting from less than $300, Calimero provides a flexible model to maximize the cost efficiency by adjusting shard performance according to the load. Calimero also offers a 14-day grace period to test out the platform for startups who are in the very beginning of their journey. 

Calimero.network is a London-based startup that has recently raised an investment round of $8.5M, co-led by Khosla Ventures, Lyrik Ventures, and Near foundation. 

Near Foundation Council updates
Near Foundation announced that Mona El Isa, a founding council member at Near Foundation Council (NFC), has been appointed as Chair.  Marieke Flament, CEO of Near Foundation, has joined as a council member, and will govern alongside existing members Richard Muirhead, Chairman and Managing Partner at Fabric Ventures, and Jason Warner, Managing Director at Redpoint Ventures as well as Sheila Warren advisor to Near Foundation and  CEO of the Crypto Council for Innovation. 

Mona takes the place of Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of Near Protocol and CEO of Pagoda (formerly Near Inc.), who has stepped down as Chair and member of the  Near Foundation Council (NFC) to focus on Web3 ecosystem development and participation.  

“It was an honor to serve as Chair and Council Member of the NEAR Foundation Council over the past two years,” said Illia Polosukhin. “I’m stepping down in order to focus fully on the development of products and technology at Pagoda, which is critical to the continuing success of the NEAR Ecosystem.”

“I will continue to be involved with NFC in my capacity as Pagoda CEO,” he added. “From a governance perspective, my departure increases the council’s independence and further decentralizes leadership and decision-making in the NEAR Ecosystem. I welcome Mona’s appointment as the new Chair and Marieke’s as council member to continue steering the Foundation in its mission of supporting NEAR’s growth.”
NEAR Q4 Protocol Roadmap Update
DEVELOPERS
January 12, 2024

By Bowen Wang, Director of Protocol

In this post, the NEAR Protocol work group would like to provide an update of the protocol roadmap to show what we accomplished in 2023 and what is planned for 2024.
TLDR: 2023 saw major experience improvements via meta transactions and zero-balance accounts, as well as node performance improvements and optimizations. Preparations are underway for a major upgrade to stateless validation, completing Phase 2 of the sharding roadmap in early 2024.
What we accomplished in 2023
There were a total of six protocol upgrades in 2023 which introduced a number of new protocol features. Meta transactions were added as a protocol feature at the beginning of the year to support gasless transactions, which means that users can transact on NEAR and start using apps without necessarily needing to pay transaction fees in NEAR. We also added zero-balance accounts, an important feature that enables users to create an account without holding NEAR to pay for storage. This makes it easy to onboard new users to applications. These two features form a solid foundation for a seamless onboarding experience for end users — a top goal for NEAR overall.
In addition to easy user onboarding, we have also been working hard to optimize the performance of NEAR. Flat storage, which was released in Q2 this year, optimized state reads and improved the stability and performance of the network overall. Another feature that optimizes NEAR nodes is cold storage, which allows for a split between hot and cold storage for a node. This means an archival node does not need to store most of the historical data on SSD and therefore can save a lot on cost. We also optimized the network communication between validator nodes by introducing the tier1 network, which reduces the latency of network messages between two validator nodes. Furthermore, we improved state sync and reduced the time it took a node to synchronize the latest state. We have also worked on improving the stability and maintainability of contract runtime with initiatives like finite wasm and limited replayability.
There are a few major initiatives that we started this year and expect to finish next year, such as stateless validation, congestion control, and transaction priority. We will dive deeper into those in the section below.


Plans for 2024
There are a few major projects that we want to deliver in 2024 to improve the usability, scalability, and decentralization of NEAR Protocol:

Stateless validation. Stateless validation is a major initiative that we have been working on for a few months. It adjusts the original Nightshade sharding design to avoid implementing fraud proofs while improving the performance of each shard significantly by putting state in memory. The stateless validation work is expected to be delivered in Q2 2024, which would also mark the completion of the original goal we set for Phase 2 of sharding. We expect the launch of stateless validation to also dramatically increase the throughput of each shard and prepare NEAR for the continued growth of usage.
Congestion control and transaction priority. While NEAR’s sharding design is horizontally scalable, it is important to provide a good user experience when there is short-term congestion on the network. This includes localizing congestion so that gas price increase does not affect the entire network and allowing users to prioritize their transactions during congestion if they are willing to pay more in transaction fees.
Support for account aggregation. Account aggregation allows a user to control accounts on different chains with one NEAR account, an important pillar of the chain abstraction vision for NEAR. It requires chain signatures, which does MPC to sign payload. This requires a new runtime API to facilitate the asynchronous nature of chain signatures.
zkWASM. We have been working on zkWASM with the Polygon team for a few months and the work will continue in 2024. The goal is to build a prover for WebAssembly smart contracts. This could be used as a part of the initiative to prove the state transition of NEAR in a ZK proof. Moreover, zkWASM also provides wasm as an alternative execution environment to EVM for L2s.
Data availability improvements. We launched NEAR DA in early November 2023 and there are a few things that we plan to work on to further improve the efficiency of NEAR DA. Those improvements include introducing KZG commitment to avoid having data availability fraud proofs, as well as real-time bridging to allow verification of data availability on Ethereum.
Ethereum wallet support. Supporting wallets like MetaMask natively on NEAR allows us to attract more users to NEAR and also be more Ethereum aligned. This requires changes to the protocol to support Ethereum addresses natively and support processing of RLP serialized Ethereum transactions.
Research into the future of sharding. There are two major directions of exploration: synchronous sharding and ZK-centric sharding. Synchronous sharding enables synchronous execution of smart contracts and addresses the developer experience pain point of having to deal with asynchronous execution. ZK-centric sharding leverages zero-knowledge proofs to validate state transition of different shards and improves the scalability and decentralization of the protocol. In addition, we will also research the next and final phase of sharding: dynamically adjusting the number of shards based on usage.
The roadmap can be seen below for those interested in more timeline specifics. It is split into two parts: Experience and Core. The Experience section encompasses user and/or developer experience and the protocol features needed to enable those experiences. As an example, synchronous execution addresses the pain point that developers feel when they implement cross-contract calls.


The Core section, on the other hand, covers major efforts to improve the scalability and decentralization of the protocol. This includes stateless validation, zkWASM, improvements to data availability, and so on.



As always, the protocol team is proud to have made several important improvements to the core protocol with zero disruption for users and developers. We look forward to making some major advancements in 2024 to help the entire NEAR ecosystem deliver its vision of mainstream adoption of an Open Web, where all internet users can control their own data, assets, and power of governance. 

We will share more details on Phase 2 advancements and timelines soon. If you’d like to learn more, join the NEAR Protocol X Spaces on Tuesday, January 16 at 5pm UTC to hear from Director of Protocol Bowen Wang and NEAR Foundation CEO Illia Polosukhin on upcoming protocol developments.


Blockchain Promise for Music Industry (Industry Background)
CASE STUDIES
November 15, 2018
What will blockchain enable in the long term?

From my subjective point of view, blockchain has the potential to re-imagine many industries in the same way that the Internet has been reshaping almost every industry for the past 25 years. Today, we are on day #1 of the blockchain paradigm shift. Adoption is almost non-existent.

In my view, it’s likely that we are living through the same tech adoption phase as Internet adoption circa the early 1990s. Future mainstream use cases are hard to predict, just as nobody in the early 1990s assumed that broadband would become cheap enough to enable movie streaming, a.k.a., Netflix. Despite the uncertainties, I want to walk through a number of industries which could be re-imagined with the blockchain long term.

This blog post will cover music industry dynamics, and what we might see emerging with blockchain. To keep the article relatively short, I embedded multiple links that provide much more detailed industry background.

Blog Post Summary:

Music industry over time evolved into an industry that has a middleman in music label, with three players earning the majority of revenue: UMG, Sony Music, WMG. Music Labels make astonishing ~$800,000 per employee in revenue, while musicians are making on average below $40,000 per year.

Music labels historically covered two functions: music production and distribution. The cost of music production and distribution decreased significantly over time, while the music discovery became the most challenging hurdle for musicians wanting to build the listener audience.

Digital music distributors, such as Napster, iTunes, Pandora, and Spotify over time offered new ways to distribute and discover music, slowly transitioning the power away from labels to music distributors, although with limited success.

Blockchain technology can enable several advantages, for both music listeners and musicians.

Music listeners will use blockchain to store digital rights to music and thus have the ability to port their owned content to various service providers (i.e. Spotify, Amazon, etc.). Because music song licenses will be stored in an immutable public ledger, it will become possible to exercise end-user rights, i.e. listen to owned music across platforms.

Musicians will be able to raise funds directly from early listeners by giving out song tokens in exchange for fiat money, thus bypassing music label. In addition to capital, it will create incentives for bootstrapping early audience. Since the supply of song tokens will be limited, early token holders will be interested in spreading the word about the band. Tokenization will create market liquidity which is beneficial for creators and supporters and shifts the value away from the current middleman.

Now, let’s dive into this in more detail.

The rise of the middleman

Over time, the music industry has consolidated power around organizations providing funding, publishing, and network for musicians: music labels. We will skip going into many aspects of the music industry history, and use this section to show how music distributors paid various royalties to music labels relative to how much power music labels had throughout the various eras.

In the 1930s, the music labels didn’t have enough centralized power to exert influence, and the music distributors of that era (terrestrial radio) didn’t need to pay royalties to the music label. They only needed to pay royalties to musicians and writers instead. In other words, the music industry had a fairly decentralized value chain.

The 1970s and 1980s saw the creation of six major record labels, known as the Big Six: Warner Music, EMI, Sony Music, BMG, Universal, and Polygram.

As a result, by the 1990s, when satellite radio became a mainstream way to distribute music, the royalties required to be paid out included the royalties to publishers, in addition to royalties to writers and musicians. SiriusXM pays something around 15.5% of its revenue in royalties (source). In contrast to 1930, music labels started to consolidate power, and, as a result, started to collect large payouts.

To further exacerbate the situation, the music label industry saw further consolidation: Polygram merged with Universal, Sony merged with BMG, leading to a situation where the majority of the power is controlled by three major corporate labels: the French-owned Universal Music Group, the Japanese-owned Sony Music Entertainment, and the US-owned Warner Music Group (revenue data).

Fast forward to 2000, the year Pandora started. As a consequence of power organized essentially in three hands (UMG, Sony Music, WMG), Pandora was required to pay different kinds of royalties, vastly different from terrestrial radio broadcasters and from satellite radio.

Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act (DPRA) was enacted by Congress in 1996 and later appended by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) in 1998. It included new categories of licensees, which then led to a new entrant, such as Pandora, to comply under a completely different set of royalties. As a result, Pandora was forced to pay for streams on “pay-for-play” basis, which is eating up to 50% of Pandora revenue. As a result, Pandora became a poster child for music business fight over royalties (more on this here).

In conclusion, we observed the ways the royalty payouts changed due to relative power dynamics of the industry in every era: relatively distributed model with terrestrial radios in the 1930s, more centralized payout model with satellite radio in 1990s, and completely centralized value chain in which Pandora operated.

Music industry value chain fairness is covered in a lot more detail here.

Economics of Major Label & Musician’s Options

Now that we’ve briefly covered the industry evolution through the prism of royalty payouts to music labels, let’s take a look at one of the major labels, Warner Music.

Warner Music made ~$3.6 billion in revenue in 2017 and employed ~4,500 people in its organization. That’s on average ~$800,000 in revenue per employee. For comparison, Warner Music’s revenue per employee is 16x higher than McDonald’s revenue per employee (source).

On other hand, musicians on average make $39,328 per year (data). As a musician, you can work with a major label, work with independent labels, or go DIY.

Under the major label model, you will significantly reduce your fraction of payouts, but at the same time de-risk your success by outsourcing the high-quality production and distribution (network) to a reputable label. You will get money for video production, studio recording, and touring support, in addition to an up-front cash advance.

By going with indie label, you will get a smaller cash infusion, and the music distribution might end up being outsourced to larger labels since indies don’t have as much staff working for them.

As DIY musician, you will hope to build an organic music base via using social media, Spotify and YouTube. There are also emerging services, such as Bandcamp and Patreon. You can post your recording on Spotify, and Spotify will pay you anywhere from $0.006 to $0.0084 per stream (data). That’s $6 for every thousand listens, or $6,000 for every million listens.

Decreasing Music Production Cost & Challenges of Music Discovery

Over the years, the cost of music production decreased significantly: you can record an album with just $10,000, even though it took ~$2M to record albums, such as Rolling Stones’s “Exile on Main Street” some 40 years ago (data).

Prior to digital music and digital content purchasing, the choice was limited by shelf space, whereas Internet expanded the choice, thus making the discovery of music a challenge.

In this regard, digital content presents challenges for the musician looking to get discovered. On one hand, you can use essentially free global distribution. On another hand, so can everyone else, making it close to impossible to be uncovered.

As a musician now, you need to get exposure via ads and concert tours. Through these two types of exposures, you will get discovered and build followers in the long term. The problem is that both approaches aren’t sustainable. Ads aren’t cheap with Google and Facebook controlling the publishing business. Touring across the country has its own middleman since Ticketmaster merged with LiveNation with a combined entity representing a choke point on live music space (more on this here).

In conclusion, even though the cost of music production went down substantially, music discovery presents many challenges in a world of abundant content. As a result, it becomes extremely hard for a musician to stand out and sustain their living as a musician.

Digital Music Distribution Models

Napster was a first striking example of being able to download music in a peer-to-peer manner and discover music via the platform. Some 80M users were blocked from using it as a result of music publishing industry shutting down the website (source).

iTunes was born out of Napster’s ashes when Steve Jobs saw the demand for music downloads (more on backstory is written here). iTunes was able to unbundle the CD concept, allowing consumers to purchase a single song for 99 cents. Music labels at the time needed to counteract the problem of piracy of downloaded music, and iTunes presented a way to legalize some of the downloads.

Then the consumer trend evolved from digital content downloads into streaming. In 2008, Spotify launched and focused on an emerging trend: the ability to stream music instead of downloading it. Spotify was forced to pay much higher royalties than even mentioned above Pandora, but new consumer behavior (streaming) took off.

Spotify has its own long-term challenges. Without building original content, Spotify is merely passing through content and giving large royalties (~70%) to content publishers. In order to move the power away from music labels, Spotify needed to do what Netflix did, aggressively move into original content, to be able to dictate the terms when it comes to sitting down at the negotiation table with labels. It’s an open question whether the power will shift to music distributor, or whether the value will continue flowing to owners of the music catalog.

Additionally, a consortium of digital music (YouTube, Apple, Spotify) distributors is also proposing new blanketed licenses which might change the power dynamics a bit, but this is out of the scope of the current article. More detail can be found here.

Blockchain As a Tool for Capital Formation and Incentive for Music Distribution

The introduction of tokens can change the existing model. The middleman could be decentralized by using token incentives. There are multiple ways for how tokens can be used for that.

The role of capital formation will be replaced from a music label to music listeners. The general idea is to get access to liquidity pools from selling tokens, thus replacing the music label with music fans as the main source of capital for the band.

The music will still have a fiat price associated with songs, but the bands will be able to exchange limited supply of song tokens to early listener base, who now will be incentivized to spread the word about the music.

Similar to how Spotify used the capital to purchase content to bootstrap marketplace, crypto incentives will draw people and allow for new content creation. Over time, more users will switch to distributed platforms giving it more leverage, weakening the original middleman.

Blockchain as a System of Record for Digital Rights Management

From the listener perspective, the powerful use case for blockchain is to use an immutable distributed ledger to keep the records of ownership. This will allow end users to use services like Amazon Music, iTunes, and Spotify interchangeably because now you will be able to verify ownership of the music asset without needing to keep it on a single platform.

In effect, there is an opportunity for Napster 2.0: fully legal this time. We will cover this use case in detail in the next blog post on the music industry.

Early Startup Examples

There are a number of early startups tackling the space from various angles.

For instance, Tune Token and Ujo Music focus on digital songwriter rights and royalty transparency, while SingularDTV focuses on music peer-to-peer fundraising and decentralized distribution. Finally, Vibrate focuses squarely on music discovery.

— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —

If you want to stay up to date with what we build at Near, use the following channels:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp, we have open conversations on tech, governance and economics of blockchain on our discord.
Our recently launched research forum — http://research.nearprotocol.com/
https://upscri.be/633436/
Like, totally random? | August 12, 2019
COMMUNITY
August 12, 2019
We’ve been up to a lot recently! Still pushing as hard as we can towards MainNet launch. In the last couple weeks, Alex published a new paper on Randomness, Illia talked to Nervos and Holochain for two new whiteboard series videos (linked below), and Jess and I did a short workshop in preparation for the IDEO+Coinlist hackathon. The hackathon has kicked off! If you’ve got an idea, you’ve got plenty of time to jump aboard here! 

After a successful round of applications for the Beta Program, we’re announcing the next thing: the NEAR Ambassador Program! If you want to create or support a NEAR Protocol community in your area, check out some info on the program. We’re particularly looking for diverse applicants (age, gender, ethnicity, geography, and more!) so if that is you, please feel encouraged to apply.

On top of that, the Beta Program is done taking applications (although if you have an epic team and idea you can still apply late). In engineering, we’ve been battling bugs and kicking out new features based on what you’ve been saying. So keep building and telling us what’s missing.

This is what randomness would look like if it were a bunny with a pancake on its head
COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
We’re heading to Germany for Berlin Blockchain Week, from Aug 18-25. Come say hi if you’re in town! Also, we’re looking for self-starters who want to create community around blockchain in their area. 

If you’re the type of person who sees themselves as a founder, you should definitely join our ambassador program. We’re allocating tokens to people who want to create a movement.

The IDEO hackathon is in progress. Don’t miss out! 
We’ve kicked off the ambassador program. Set something up in your community!
We’re hiring aggressively. If you don’t see anything that fits you, email us!
We’ve gotten a ton of great applications for our beta program and have already onboarded our first projects. If you have a late application, it’s still worth sending it in here: https://pages.near.org/beta

UPCOMING EVENTS

We’ll be involved in a couple of events at Berlin Blockchain Week:

Illia will present at a Pantera event on Aug 19th on the Web3 Stack
Illia will be on a panel on the Road to Adoption for the decentralized web on August 20th, with Celo and Nexus Mutual
Alex will be presenting at the Web3 Summit on sharding
Illia will be on a panel on August 22nd for Berlin Blockchain Week
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
This is an image of what Chunks would look like if it were a wild cat. He C H O N K Y.
Chunks are in a mega-PR; you can take a look here. We’re also polishing staking, and adding features to make building stuff on NEAR faster and better. You can now send money through the command line! Check out the wallet API proposal below as well. If you want to add some features, or have a cool idea don’t forget that everything we do is entirely open source!

71 PRs across 14 repos by 16 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, and near-wallet

Here are the highlights of what’s been added in the last two weeks:

Enabled sending telemetry data over HTTPS in near core 
Updated testnet genesis in core
Near shell updated to 0.9.4
Improve error handling for login in near shell
Display transactions per second (tps) and max tps in explorer
New enhancement proposal for Wallet API
Validator rewards implemented and merged in core
Kickouts added to validator manager and account deletion added to core
New calls added for sending money through the command line
New testing pipeline in CI added to the online IDE
Block search added and major performance boost to block explorer
WRITING AND CONTENT
We’ve released a paper and a post on randomness. When Illia was in China recently, he had a chance to sneak into a room with a whiteboard and break down Nervos with Haichao Zhu. Later, Eric Harris-Braun from Holochain came by our office and explore the concepts behind DHT. Check out the links below!

Alex’s post on Randomness
The formal paper on Randomness
The new Whiteboard Series Episode 25 with Nervos here. (There were some technical difficulties, but it’s still comprehensible)
The new Whiteboard Series Episode 26 with Holochain here
Workshop for IDEO + Coinlist on getting set up quickly for the hackathon here
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!
If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR at Collision: Start Your BOS Journey and Expand into the Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 27, 2023
Collision is here. Today, June 26th through the 29th in Toronto, Ontario, NEAR experts will be on hand at Collision to showcase how brands and companies can make a move into the Open Web with NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The BOS redefines the Web2-to-Web3 experience. Now anyone can effortlessly create and distribute decentralized applications, using any blockchain — all in one browser.  

Don’t miss NEAR Horizon, NEAR Foundation’s new Web3 startup support platform, which will also be at Collision. If you’re a founder or developer, then you will definitely want to meet with the Horizon team to get started on the Web3 funding and building journey.  

Here is what to expect from NEAR at Collision 2023. 

NEAR Speaker Sessions you won’t want to miss
Tuesday, Jun 27, 12:00 – 12:45 PM

Location: Beanfield Centre, Masterclass 1

Masterclass: “The Fastest Way to Add Web3 to Your App”

NEAR is transforming Web3 for developers, enterprises, and users alike with the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) – a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences compatible with any blockchain. NEAR founder Illia Polosukhin shows how the fastest onboarding in Web3 combined with decentralized frontends and embedded social features can help Web2 brands and Web3 projects deliver new & easy experiences and grow their communities.

Speaker: Illia Polosukhin, NEAR Protocol, Co-founder

Tuesday, Jun 27, 2:10 – 2:35 PM

Location: Enercare Centre, MoneyConf

Fireside Chat: “At the intersection of AI and Web3”

Speakers:

lllia Polosukhin, Near Protocol, Co-founder
Elad Gil, Investor
Moderator: Lucinda Shen, Axios, Fintech Reporter

Wednesday, Jun 28, 01:30 – 02:15 PM

Location: Beanfield Centre, Masterclass 4

Masterclass: “How to Decentralize Any Frontend Using BOS”

Learn how to store your frontend codebase entirely on-chain and make it more accessible to users with NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (BOS).

Speaker: Miao Jiang, Head of Product, Proximity Labs

Wednesday, Jun 28, 02:30 – 03:15 PM

Location: Beanfield Centre, Masterclass 4
Panel: “Charting the Course for a Thriving Web3 Ecosystem”

Delve into the current state of web3 investing, identify the crucial elements for building a thriving web3 ecosystem, and explore innovative strategies for scaling startup support platforms.

Speakers:

Joyce Yang, Founder, Global Coin Research
Steven Chien, Founder, Press Start Capital
Paul Hsu, Co-founder, Decasonic
Moderator: Laura Cunningham, General Manager, NEAR Foundation
Thursday, Jun 29, 12:23 – 12:27 PM

Location: Enercare Centre, Growth Summit

Keynote: “Solving the Blockchain Enterprise Dilemma”

Speaker: Sandi Fatic, Co-founder, CEO, Calimero Network

Events from the NEAR Community
June 27, 6-9 PM – NEAR Horizon Pitch & Networking | Collision 2023

The NEAR Horizon team is partnering with VCs and Funding Teams from around the world who are looking to back exceptional entrepreneurs for the long term to build the future of Web3.

June 28, 10 AM-8 PM – Web3 Day (& Night) | Collision Conference Toronto

An invite-only event for the Web3 community & Web3 curious during the Collision conference in Toronto. Panels, speakers, networking, art, music, food & drinks, pitch opportunities, and more.

June 29, 6-9 PM – NEAR Toronto Launch Party
An exhilarating event that marks the launch of the NEAR Toronto Regional Community and concludes the three-day Collision Conference.

Stay tuned to Near.org/collision for the latest event updates. 
Detailed overview of Ethereum 2.0 shard chains: Committees, Proposers and Attesters
DEVELOPERS
October 21, 2018
Many details of how Ethereum 2.0 will work are available today, and multiple teams are already working on implementations of it. One large component for which neither spec nor any detailed info is available today is the shard chains. Ultimately the spec will appear here, but in the meantime I will provide a detailed overview in this blog post.

Footnote: an earlier version of this write-up was describing a now obsolete version of Ethereum’s approach called IMD (immediate message driven). That version can be found here.

Committees and their formation
Any participant of Ethereum network can become a validator, for which it is sufficient to stake 32 ETH into a dedicated smart contract on the existing Proof-of-Work chain.

Image by Hsiao-Wei Wang
Once a participant is in a validator pool, they can be assigned to a certain shard. The assignment is completely random, and leverages a smart usage of Verifiable Delay Functions (VDFs) to achieve unbiased randomness.

If one stakes significantly more than 32 ETH (say 320 ETH), they get proportional number of validator seats. Those seats are in no way connected to each other, in particular each of them is assigned to a shard independently, and thus in the worst case a participant that staked 320 ETH could at any single moment be a validator in 10 shards. Not doing so would increase the likelihood of an adversary overtaking a shard, and there’s an expectation that higher stakes generally mean access to more resources, and thus more compute power.

Block production in a proof-of-stake system
Ethereum 2.0 is a proof-of-stake system. In this section I will review a general framework of how blocks are created in many existing and proposed proof-of-stake blockchains:

In such a framework, blocks are produced at a regular schedule, say once every 5 seconds. There’s a set of validators that produce and validate blocks. For each 5 seconds time slot one validator is assigned who is expected to produce a block at that time slot. If validators have non-equal stakes, validators with larger stakes generally have more time slots in which they propose blocks.

When forks appear, the selected chain that an honest validator is expected to build upon is the one that has the most blocks in it. For as long as the honest members control more than half of all the validators, it is expected that reversing a large chain of blocks is very hard. Even if the entirety of the dishonest minority intentionally chooses not to produce blocks during their time slots on the honest chain, and concurrently secretly builds a fork chain, their chain is expected to be shorter than the honest chain, an argument similar to that in proof-of-work systems, for as long as more than half of the hash power is controlled by honest participants, the probability of reversing a long tail of blocks is very unlikely.

However, such framework, if implemented naively, has a multitude of issues. First, short term forks are still very possible. If the minority controls just 10% of all the validators, the probability of reversing even the last say 6 blocks becomes prohibitively high. Second, all sorts of censoring problems arise. For example, if dishonest participants happen to have two slots in a row, they can censor the block in the slot immediately preceding theirs:

On the figure above dishonest validators control time slots 3 and 4. They intentionally produce their blocks on top of the block from time slot 1, effectively censoring the block in time slot 2. The honest validator in slot 5 will choose the longer chain that 3 and 4 have built when produce their block.

A single dishonest validator can also attempt to censor the block from the previous time slot. Consider the following figure. The X-axis is time, with time slots for each validator labeled at the bottom. The number on each block is the slot at which the block was expected to be published. Honest validators assigned to slots 0 and 2 have published their blocks in time, but the dishonest validator assigned to slot 1 delayed their block and only published it after the block for time slot 2 was published (thus the validator in time slot 2 was not aware of the block and built their block on top of block in time slot 0):

What block shall honest validator at slot 3 built upon? Consider 4 possible rules:

Always build on the block from the earlier slot. This way a dishonest validator in the earlier slot can delay publishing their block until the validator from the latter slot published theirs, effectively censoring them (exactly the scenario depicted above);
Always build on the block from the later slot. This way a dishonest validator in slot X can choose to ignore the block published for slot X-1, and be certain the validator in slot X+1 will choose their block, effectively censoring the block in X-1;
Always build on the block that was received earlier. This way either of the above scenarios are possible if the dishonest validator has better network connection to the validator in the next slot;
Choose the block randomly. This way dishonest validators can never censor with certainty (unless they have multiple slots in a row), but if censoring has higher value for them than the block reward, can still naturally attempt to censor and have a 50% chance of succeeding.
All of the above scenarios are undesirable.

BFT approaches
A family of proposals that address the issues above use some sort of a BFT consensus algorithm on each block among the validators. One of the earliest papers suggesting such approach is ByzCoin, but a multitude of other protocols were built upon this idea since then.

The main property of such protocols is that once a block was finalized by the committee, for as long as dishonest participants control less than ⅓ of the validators, the block is irreversible, so neither forking nor censoring is possible.

Two major disadvantages are then a) most of the existing BFT algorithms are very slow, and were not designed for a large set of participants trying to reach the consensus, and b) being offline is considered to be adversarial behavior, and thus if less than ⅔ of participants are online, the consensus on the blocks cannot be reached, and the system, at least for some time, stalls.

Attestations
Ethereum 2.0 instead uses the former approach, each time slot having a particular validator who is assigned to create a block at that time slot. Such a validator is called a proposer. However, Ethereum 2.0 extends the approach by encouraging each other validator in the committee to “attest” to the block by signing it. The signatures are accumulated using BLS signatures aggregation, which prevents the block size from exploding with the number of attesters. Moreover, if for a given slot a validator didn’t see the block being produced, or the block was produced on a chain that the validator doesn’t see as the current chain, the validator is encouraged to attest to a so-called “skip-block”. This way an honest validator is expected to attest to exactly one block each time slot, either the actual block produced by a proposer, or a “skip-block”.

By using attesters and a smart fork choice rule Ethereum 2.0 shard chains manage to avoid most of the issues of both vanilla PoS approach and the family of BFT consensus algorithms.

Fork choice rule
To get the selected chain, one starts at the genesis block, and at each step if there’s a fork chooses the block that has the most unique attesters attesting to either that block, or any block in that block’s branch (with a caveat described below in section Latest Message Driven).

Consider the example above. Letters in each block indicate the names of the attesters on the block. The dashed blocks are skip-blocks. There’s a fork early on, and Alice (A), Bob (B), Carol (C), Dave (D), Elaine (E) have attested to some blocks in the lower branch, while Victor (V), Xavier (X), Yasmine (Y) and Zach (Z) have attested to some blocks in the upper branch.

To find out the selected chain, one starts at the genesis block (slot 1) and moves to the right. At the block in slot 2 the participant has to choose between the upper branch and the lower branch. The fork choice says that the branch with more unique attesters across all the blocks in the branch shall be selected. The lower branch has five unique attesters (Alice, Bob, Carol, Dave and Elaine), while the upper branch only has four (Victor, Xavier, Yasmine and Zach), so the lower branch is chosen. Note that there’s no actual chain in the lower branch that has five attesters attesting to the blocks in it, moreover there’s no chain in the lower branch that has even four unique attesters attesting the blocks in it (the chain that ends in the block at slot 7 has only attestations from Alice, Bob and Carol, while the chain that ends in the block at slot 8 has only attestations from Alice, Dave and Elaine). But accumulated across all the blocks in the lower branch the number of attesters is higher than in the upper branch, and thus the lower branch is chosen.

Similarly, at block in slot 6 one would have to choose between two branches, with the upper branch having attestations from 3 unique attesters (Alice, Bob and Carol) and the lower from only two (Dave and Elaine), thus one would go to the upper branch eventually choosing the chain with blocks in slots 1, 2, 4, 6, 7.

Latest Message Driven
In the present fork choice rule design only the attestation from each attester with the highest slot number is considered. For example, on the figure below Alice attested to a block in slot 3, and only that attestations from Alice is used throughout the fork choice rule. In particular, her attestation in slot 2 is no longer considered, and thus when deciding on the branch at slot 0 the upper chain will be chosen since it has three attestations (Alice, Bob and Elaine), while the lower chain only has two (Carol and Dave):

Note that it doesn’t matter which of the two attestations from Alice was submitted by her first, or in which order the attestations were received by a particular observer, only the attestations with the highest slot number (in this case 3) will be considered.

Attestation conditions
An honest attester must only attest to a block if the following conditions are met:

The block belongs to the chain that the attester considers to be the currently selected chain;
The attester hasn’t attested to any other block for the same time slot. Note that honest proposers would never propose two blocks for the same slot, so this rule only kicks in if a malicious proposer attempted to create a fork by producing multiple blocks for the same slot, a condition that is immediately slashable.
If an attester doesn’t receive a block for a particular slot, they attest to a skip-block for that time slot. It is up for the attester to decide how far into the time slot they wait until they decide to stop waiting for the block and attest to the skip block. Danny Ryan suggests for a honest attester to wait until the middle of the time slot, but ultimately they shall do what they believe optimizes for the chance that they will attest to the same block (whether actual or skip-) as the majority of the other attesters.

Analysis
Liveness
Unlike the family of BFT consensus algorithms, the approach discussed above continues to operate even if more than ⅓ of all the validators are offline. The participants in the network will observe that the blocks do not get ⅔ of attestations, and will be more cautious about the finality of the blocks, waiting for additional security (for example by waiting until the block is cross-linked to the beacon chain and is finalized by Casper FFG there, topics outside the scope of this write-up), but importantly, the blocks will continue to be published, and the system doesn’t stall.

Censorship
First observe that of the two censorship scenarios discussed above, the one in which two validators that have two consecutive slots censor out the block in the slot immediately preceding them is no longer valid, since the length of the chain doesn’t affect the fork choice rule any longer.

The second scenario (in which the proposer for a block delays it until the next block is published), would still be possible if the attesters were not required to only attest during the time frame for the corresponding slot: a malicious proposer in time slot X could delay their block until the block X+1 is published, and then publish theirs. The attesters would not be able to distinguish between malicious intent and mere network delay, and without a specific requirement not to attest during the time window for the corresponding slot could still attest to block for slot X, effectively censoring X+1.

The requirement to attest within the time frame completely solves the problem if the clocks among all the participants are perfectly synchronized. If the clocks are not synchronized (but are still within at most couple seconds from each other), some sorts of timing attacks are possible, though are extremely unlikely.

Forkfulness
Between the two possible approaches to how the attesters are accounted for (LMD in which only the largest-slot-number attestation from each attester is considered, and IMD in which all the attestations are considered) the latter provides slightly better forkfulness guarantees (see Forkfulness section in my original write-up here), though still not as good as the family of BFT consensus algorithms.

With the LMD approach that is the current proposal for Ethereum 2.0 described in this write-up the forkfulness is weaker (i.e. forks are more likely). To understand why consider a branch with 60 attestations, some of which are by malicious attesters, and another branch with 40 attestations. In IMD 21 of the attesters who attested to the first branch need to exercise a malicious intent and attest to a block in the competing chain for that chain to beat the selected chain (in the end having 61 attestations vs 60 on the previously selected chain). In LMD it is sufficient for 11 attesters to exercise malicious behavior (in the end having 51 attestations vs 49 on the previously selected chain). Despite this weakness LMD still helps reduce the forkfulness, though does not remove the forks completely, even if more than ⅔ of attestations are accumulated and less than ⅓ of adversaries are present. Consider the following example:

Assume there are 7 validators, Alice (A), Bob (B), Carol (C), Dave (D) and Elaine (E) are honest, while Xavier (X) and Yasmine (Y) are malicious.

(i) There’s a fork with producers for time slot 2 and 3 both building on top of the block in slot 1. Alice and Bob both saw the block in time slot 2 during the time it was published and attested to it;

(ii) Carol saw the block in time slot 3 when it was published, but hasn’t seen the block in slot 2 and its attestations yet, and thus attested to block in slot 3, so did Xavier and Yasmine;

(iii) Now that the block in time slot 3 has three attestations, Alice and Bob consider it to be the selected block and also attest to it (assuming the time for the attestations hasn’t expired yet); The block in time slot 3 at this point has more than ⅔ of all the validators attesting to it and ideally shall not be reversible.

(iv) Unknown to other attesters Dave and Elaine also attested to block in slot 2 back when it was still legal, but their attestations were delayed due to slow network, and were not seen by Alice and Bob previously;

(v) Xavier and Yasmine exercise a malicious intent and build and attest to block in time slot 4 that is built on top of a block in time slot 2. At this point the upper chain has more attestations (Dave, Elaine, Xavier and Yasmine) than the lower chain (Carol, Alice and Bob), and becomes current, even though the lower chain had more than ⅔ attestations previously.

(vi) All honest validators now also attest to the new block in slot 4.

Note that this scenario requires a multitude of unlikely events (such as attestations from Dave and Elaine being delayed, which with hundreds of validators becomes extremely unlikely unless the adversaries control the network communication) and resorting to malicious behavior (Xavier and Yasmine attesting to a block they know is not on the selected chain, but still shows that the attestation framework doesn’t provide theoretical guarantees as strong as the family of BFT consensus algorithms.

Comparison to TxFlow
TxFlow is a consensus algorithm that NEAR uses for its shard chains. The informal spec of TxFlow can be found here.

The two drawbacks of the Ethereum’s approach are the possibility of forks even after a very large number of attestations and the dependency on synchronized clocks among the validators. In the present proposal blocks are published every 8 seconds, so the clocks need to be synchronized up to several seconds. Simulations ran by the Ethereum Foundation show that even with the clocks discrepancy up to 10 seconds the chain continues to grow. Most of the blocks attested to become skip-blocks, but such skip-blocks point to regular blocks, effectively making the chain of regular blocks continue growing.

TxFlow maintains most of the guarantees and properties of the Ethereum’s approach, but doesn’t have the dependency on the synchronized clocks, and guarantees block irreversibility under an assumption that fewer than ⅓ of all the validators are malicious. In the present design it does, however, lose liveness if more than ⅓ of the validators are offline until the validators are rotated.

Footnote: Note that the assumption of less than ⅓ of malicious validators in a shard is not reasonable when the number of shards is high and the adversaries are adaptive, so the family of BFT protocols including TxFlow are also likely to ultimately have forks.

It is worth pointing out that in the EthResearch thread on TxFlow, Vitalik points out that the TxFlow’s approach to deciding when blocks can be published (which is effectively “as fast as the network allows”) has another drawback, which is that nodes now have an incentive to pool and collocate to reduce the latency between them. The counterargument to this point is that in TxFow the bottleneck on the blocks is the latency of the fastest validator among the slowest ⅓, meaning that unless around ⅔ of all the validators collocate, collocation doesn’t speed up block production (and thus rewards) much. Thus for the collocation and the centralization it brings to occur, a major cooperation among validators is needed, which is extremely unlikely for as long as the pool of the validators is sufficiently large.

The choice between the TxFlow and Attestations framework narrows down to the following table:

Outro
If you are interested in the space of sharded decentralized ledgers, please follow our progress:

NEAR Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
My Twitter — https://twitter.com/AlexSkidanov
Medium — https://medium.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp,
Research Forum — http://research.nearprotocol.com
https://upscri.be/633436/

We will also make our primary repository on GitHub open within coming weeks, so stay tuned.

Huge thanks to Vitalik Buterin, Justin Drake and Danny Ryan for answering numerous question and clarifying the attestations framework, and to Bowen Wang and David Stolp for reviewing the draft of this article.
Encode x NEAR Horizon Bootcamp: Your Mission to Master Web3 Rust Contracts
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 14, 2023
Web3 builders, developers, and founders are gearing up to join the Encode x NEAR Horizon Bootcamp starting July 10th, 2023 to upgrade their building, development, and coding skills. Following the recent partnership between NEAR Horizon and Encode Club, the bootcamp is part of a broader initiative to accelerate blockchain expertise with a focus on developing Rust smart contracts.

Encode Club is a community that helps builders grow their technical capabilities with tangible results, such as completing projects, promoting employability, and gaining funding. This mission aligns seamlessly with NEAR Horizon, a new branch of the NEAR Foundation fostering innovation and development among early stage Web3 Founders building in the NEAR ecosystem

If you’re a self-starting developer hungry to learn more about building on NEAR, then the NEAR x Encode Club Bootcamp might just be the perfect crash course to get started and progress rapidly. Apply here for the NEAR x Encode Bootcamp. Here’s the lowdown on what the bootcamp will entail and how NEAR builders can fast track their Web3 skillset and knowledge base to the next level.

Ranking up in Web3 with the NEAR x Encode Club Bootcamp
Firstly, selected participants can attend the bootcamp for free, reflecting Encode Club’s commitment to supporting Web3 builders. The 90-minute lessons will be conducted via Zoom (or similar), Monday through Thursday over the course of eight weeks, and feature an engaging mix of deep educational content focused on smart contract development as well as hands-on learning from Encode Club technical experts.

Mentors will guide participants through a variety of topics and related subjects, demystifying  the myriad of concepts and nuances inherent in blockchain development. The focus will be primarily on the NEAR ecosystem, with the goal of ensuring that everyone gains the practical skills and knowledge to excel, succeed, and create in the rapidly evolving Web3 world. 

Calling all coders: Bootcamp application and selection process
There are no official prerequisites to applying for the bootcamp. However, previous coding and Web3 or blockchain experience (particularly with RUST) will help you get the most from the sessions. The Bootcamp is also part-time, giving attendees flexibility with their full-time commitments.

After registration, the pool will be whittled down to a shortlist who will be asked to conduct a brief interview before being formally selected and invited to attend. At this time, selectees will be asked to provide a small deposit, repaid when the Bootcamp concludes. The cohort size will be roughly 50 people, with Encode Club assisting in job placement once finished.

The NEAR x Encode Club Bootcamp is a perfect example of the work NEAR Horizon is doing as a startup support platform for the entire ecosystem. Any builders, developers, or NEAR blockchain enthusiasts should apply directly through Encode Club right away, as cohort space is currently limited. To learn more about NEAR Horizon or to list your project on the Horizon platform, visit near.org/horizon.

Your mission – should you choose to accept and sign the transaction – is to master Web3 at the NEAR x Encode Club Bootcamp. Apply now and report for duty on July 10th!


Announcing Web Push Notifications on B.O.S
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 4, 2023
Starting today, developers can better engage with their users thanks to Web Push Notifications on both desktop and mobile for applications built on B.O.S.

Apps and components built on the NEAR B.O.S have always benefited from in-site notifications to keep their users informed about relevant updates. Until now, these notifications were only shown within near.org (and other compatible gateways), meaning that users had to visit the website to see them. Now, users can opt-in to receive push notifications directly on their computers and phones about important events in their favorite apps. This way, users can be notified in real time, even if they are not actively navigating near.org.

Why are push notifications useful?
Thanks to push notifications, users can receive timely updates and information about their account’s activities in real time and through multiple channels. The increase in awareness also benefits application developers by encouraging users to return to the app, thus significantly improving user engagement. This way, push notifications help to tackle one of the biggest problems for founders in Web3: re-engaging and retaining users. Nowadays, user retention rates in Web3 fall short of the industry standard for web apps, which stands at a 35% retention rate after 30 days. Thanks to web push notifications, developers on BOS now benefit from a powerful new tool to re-engage their user base.

What will the notification experience look like on near.org?
On near.org, users will be asked to opt-in to the new push notification system on their desktop and iOS/Android mobile browsers. (To enable browser push notifications on iOS, users need to update their device at least to iOS 16.4 and will also need to add the near.org website as an app icon to their home screen – see link.) If the user accepts, they will automatically start to receive notifications for baseline social activities on their account. Users will be able to view all notifications in the notification center, and set their notification preferences via the designated settings menu.

For developers implementing components and apps, the new notification system is completely transparent. Apps that already leverage the in-site notification system will automatically benefit from web push notifications, meaning their users will also be notified on their desktop and mobile in real time.

For gateway developers, Pagoda is releasing a comprehensive guide on how to add web push notifications using a simple web service.

What are some examples of notifications I could add to my application?
Notifications can apply to any event that developers want to inform users about. Some examples of how  developers have used these are:

Notify updates on the status of a bid placed on an NFT marketplace.
Tell users that they gained a new follower.  
Inform of a reply to a comment on a discussion.
Any other on-chain action that is sent to the current notification system.
How do I learn more and get started?
The best place to start is by checking the official documentation. You can also check examples of apps sending notifications such as the LikeButton and FollowButton. If you have any questions or need to reach out to the Pagoda product team, remember that we have weekly office hours, and an active Telegram channel where members of the community can help you. 

What’s coming next?
Stay tuned! Pagoda plans to release additional notification features later this year, including support for more granular notification settings and safeguards to manage notification volume for users on near.org. They will also be exploring support for near.org notifications via email.
Unlocking the Future of DeFi with the idOS on NEAR: A Developer’s Guide
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 9, 2023
In the ever-evolving landscape of web3, DeFi has stood apart as a driver of innovation, promising a decentralized financial future. But for developers and founders, the challenge has always been integrating real-world applications with the decentralized world, ensuring compliance, and providing a seamless user experience. Enter the idOS on NEAR, a solution — built with Fractal — that bridges this gap and brings the Open Web closer to mainstream adoption.

Why the idOS Matters 
For developers diving into DeFi, the idOS (Identity Operating System) on NEAR offers a robust framework. It’s not just about creating decentralized financial applications; it’s about crafting solutions that can interact with real-world systems, regulations, and meet user expectations.

1. Composable & Permissionless Integration: With the idOS, developers can effortlessly combine different protocols that require identity verification, leveraging the “money legos” concept. This composability ensures that your DeFi applications can scale and evolve with the ecosystem.

2. Enhanced User Experience & Identity Verification: One of the major pain points in the decentralized world is the repetitive identity verification processes, often known as KYC. With the idOS, this process is streamlined. Users verify their identity once, and then, by simply signing with their wallet, they can reuse their verified credentials across any NEAR dApp without undergoing KYC again. This not only enhances user experience but also ensures faster onboarding and interaction with dApps.

3. Seamless On/Off Ramps: The idOS facilitates smoother crypto-fiat transactions, a significant pain point in web3 adoption. By integrating the idOS, developers can offer users the ability to easily transition between the decentralized and traditional financial worlds, unlocking use cases like remittances or DeCommerce payments.

Beyond DeFi: Proof-of-Personhood Use Cases
While DeFi is the cornerstone, the idOS’s potential extends beyond. For founders looking to innovate in areas like decentralized governance or community voting, the idOS provides the tools to ensure proof-of-personhood:

1. Decentralized Voting: Governance is a critical aspect of any decentralized protocol. With the idOS, developers can integrate systems where users prove their unique human status, ensuring one person, one vote. This minimizes the influence of bots and whales, leading to fairer governance outcomes.

2. Portable user profiles across Web3: For platforms that require user profiles like Near.org, the idOS offers a decentralized solution. Users can create and manage their profiles, ensuring data privacy and control. This is especially crucial for platforms that want to offer personalized experiences without compromising on user data sovereignty.

Privacy-Preserving KYC & Compliance
No developer wants to compromise on user privacy. With the idOS, KYC processes become more user-centric. Users can obtain KYC credentials from multiple providers, with the assurance that their data remains encrypted and under their control. For founders, this means complying with global financial regulations without sacrificing user trust.

Join the revolution with idOS
For developers and founders ready to shape the future of DeFi and decentralized applications, the idOS on NEAR offers the tools, scalability, and compliance required for success. As we venture into a world where decentralized finance and real-world applications converge, solutions like the idOS will be at the forefront, ensuring that innovation remains uncompromised.

Join the revolution and explore how the idOS can redefine your DeFi applications and enhance user identity verification on NEAR.


Mintbase Brings New Open Web Wallet Tech to Families Celebrating Raksha Bandhan
NEAR FOUNDATION
August 29, 2023
Mintbase, a leading NFT platform that allows users to mint, buy, and sell digital assets has partnered with the NEAR Foundation to help friends and family celebrate the traditional Indian festival, Raksha Bandhan, with Open Web technology.

By bringing together several pieces of breakthrough wallet technology for the first time, photos can be instantly converted into NFTs and stored permanently on the NEAR blockchain — all without users needing to create seed phrases or pre-loaded wallets. 

A new type of wallet 
Mintbase’s new wallet streamlines the blockchain user experience like never before thanks to innovations on the NEAR blockchain. 

FastAuth, created by NEAR, is an open-source protocol that provides an onboarding and account recovery process similar to what you find in Web2. It uses meta transactions, allowing a third party to pay the gas fee on behalf of the user, solving one of the most significant problems new users face in the blockchain world.

The other killer feature is NEAR’s built-in account abstraction system. Users no longer need to deal with seed phrases or require NEAR to mint. Instead, a full access key is stored in the user’s passkey system, so biometric signing will work in a noncustodial way without any local storage interactions.

This means no more seed phrases, and no more having to pre-load the wallet with currency before use. Instead, users of Mintbase’s wallet will be able to use and interact with blockchain in the same way they would with Web2 apps. 

Celebrating the essence of Rakhi  
To celebrate Raksha Bandhan, the popular Indiana festival where sisters tie a talisman or amulet called a Rakhi around the wrists of their brothers, users will be able to capture the moment with a photo and upload it instantly to the blockchain via the Mintbase wallet. 

The metadata will be permanently stored on the Arweave blockchain and a NFT of the moment will be minted on the NEAR blockchain and delivered back to the user. It’s a sizable step forward in showcasing how far Web3 technology has come in making the user experience easier and more familiar to non-blockchain users. 

As part of this celebration, there’s more than just memories to win. Participants can win prizes for NFTs they created and share them on X (formerly Twitter) with the hashtag #RakhisNEAR.  

For more details, please visit https://rakhi.mintbase.xyz. Participate, share, and make this Raksha Bandhan more memorable with Mintbase and NEAR Foundation.


Join Stake Wars to Become a Chunk-Only Producer
DEVELOPERS
June 30, 2022
Stake Wars is back to help decentralize the NEAR network and help the community with cool new challenges and rewards to members who want to become validators. In Stake Wars: Episode III, NEAR is focusing on Chunk-Only Producers—NEAR’s next step toward a fully-sharded protocol.

By introducing this new type of validator, NEAR can increase the total number of validator seats. Stake Wars is helping Chunk-Only Producers to prepare for this moment. It’s an opportunity to gain confidence and learn how to work with contract-based delegation.

With Stake Wars III set for July 13, here’s a brief rundown of the new Chunk-Only Producer role, and what to expect from the Stake Wars program.

Chunk-Only Producers help decentralize and secure NEAR
The NEAR Network is currently secured by 100 validators. NEAR’s roadmap will allow the protocol to become fully-sharded. This will help reach the ambitious goal to decentralize NEAR while keeping the network secure. Chunk-Only Producers are an important milestone along this path.

Chunk-Only Producers are solely responsible for producing chunks in a single shard (a network partition). A chunk, of course, is a shard block (see Nightshade for more detail). What’s cool for Chunk-Only Producers is that they can run their validator node on a less demanding machine, such as a 4-Core CPU, with 8GB of RAM and 200GB SSD of storage.

Once the Chunk-Only Producer is available on NEAR mainnet at the end of Q3, NEAR plans to onboard an additional 200-300 validators. This, combined with a lower barrier to entry (minimum stake) for validators, is a win for the NEAR network as it moves toward a more scalable future. By increasing the total number of validators, NEAR will become more decentralized and more secure.

How Stake Wars III works
Chunk-Only Producers can deploy the open-source Staking Pool smart contract from Github, to test their systems and gain confidence with contract-based delegation. Validators are also free to customize their delegation contract, build their web applications, and integrate the Staking Pool into their existing systems.

Stake Wars is community-operated, and community members such as Metapool, Everstake, LiNEAR and Open Shards Alliance (OSA) will offer their support to the program. NEAR plans to use more than 4M $NEAR tokens as delegation rewards for the participants who complete the challenges. These rewards help put participants in a position to become a mainnet validators by Q4 of 2022. 

The Stake Wars: Episode III incentivized testnet for Chunk-Only Producers will launch on July 13th and run until early September. Any potential validators should join the Stake Wars community on Telegram and Discord to coordinate with other Validators, and follow @PagodaPlatform on twitter. 

The full Stake Wars III page is launching soon. So stay tuned.


NEAR at ETHCC Highlights: Sustainability and the BOS Take Center Stage in Paris
UNCATEGORIZED
July 20, 2023
Missed out on NEAR’s rendezvous at ETHCC 2023 in Paris? No need to worry. In this roundup, all NEAR enthusiasts can catch up on the enlightening presentations by BOS, Web3, and blockchain experts. You’re in the perfect place to delve into notable announcements made during the conference, from NEAR signing up to the Ethereum Climate Platform to an epic new interactive Polygon zkEVM app dashboard.

ICYMI, it’s time to dive into all the key speeches, events, and announcements that unfolded in the City of Lights over this past weekend.

Interactive Polygon zkEVM app dashboard launches on the BOS
In the most significant partnership announcement of ETHCC, an interactive Polygon zkEVM app dashboard has launched on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). This integration will not only increase accessibility and discoverability for zkEVM developers and users on the open web but also vastly improve user experience. 

The collaboration is set to accelerate the creation of dApps that will onboard billions of users into the open web. The new Polygon zkEVM dashboard now combines the benefits of zero-knowledge technology with the power of the BOS to unlock even more seamless onboarding to the open web. 

The dashboard brings a new suite of zero knowledge development capabilities to zkEVM developers and lets them build apps that can reach more users from day one. It’s a groundbreaking partnership that brings together the NEAR and Polygon ecosystems, two of the most innovative names in Ethereum and blockchain scalability.

NEAR makes waves with sustainability commitment
NEAR Foundation made a significant stride in its commitment to Web3 sustainability. As part of its ongoing efforts, NEAR signed up to the Ethereum Climate Platform, demonstrating its resolve towards minimizing the environmental impact of Web3 development. This move aligns with NEAR’s ethos and commitment to sustainable and scalable blockchain solutions.

Marieke storms the BOS-tille at “Funding the Commons”
Adding to the list of notable NEAR occurrences during ETHCC, NEAR Foundation CEO, Marieke Flament, was a keynote speaker at the “Funding the Commons” event held at Sorbonne Université on July 15. Marike’s message was one of bringing more ethics and equity to the entire blockchain and Web3 ecosystem.

In her speech, titled “The Open Web is NEAR: How the BOS, NDC, and DAOs are creating a Decentralized Web,” Marieke explored how NEAR Foundation serves the ecosystem by building public goods like the BOS, DevHub, NDC, DAOs, and more. 

“Funding the Commons” is an event designed to complement the Ethereum Community Conference, promoting connection amongst participants, and fostering new collaborations and projects. The event organizers also planned a dinner on July 15 at Le Procope Paris, where Marieke was among the most notable invited guests.

Unpacking Insights: notable talks and events at ETH CC
Near @ ETHCC wasn’t just a gathering of blockchain enthusiasts, but a hotbed of innovative discussions. Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR, and Nadir Dabit’s conversation around decentralized social networks piqued particular interest. They hinted at a shift in how we’ll connect and share information in the future and the potential role of decentralized social on the BOS.

Matt Stephenson, head of crypto economics at crypto investment firm, Pantera Capital, took the audience on a thrilling Day Two journey through the intricacies of behavioral game theory. He showcased how game theory could be leveraged in this space, offering a unique lens to examine, understand, and potentially predict blockchain trends.

Near @ ETHCC didn’t skimp on forward-looking conversations either. A panel featuring Max Mersch of Fabric Ventures, Maggie Love from SheFi, and Bilal El Alamy of PyratzLabs posed a pertinent question: “What’s the Next Big Use Case Being Built in the Bear Market?” Each speaker provided valuable insight about both challenges and opportunities posed by bear markets.

Ecosystem Updates
Despite the focus on the Near @ ETHCC side event itself, the NEAR ecosystem saw significant developments and milestones during the past few days.

The NEAR Digital Collective’s I-AM-HUMAN movement has crossed 2,000 members in the NEAR ecosystem. The initiative allows users to vote, elect candidates for office, and shape the future of NEAR. You can sign up here.
MintbaseSearch has gone live on NEAR mainnet along with its own ChatGPT plugin. Mintbase now enables users to ask anything about NFTs on the NEAR Protocol. More details here.
Opolis has raised $6.6M in a bridge fundraising round with support from NEAR Foundation, Polygon Ventures, and Draper Capital. Read more details about the full announcement here.
Black Snow: Battle For Earth, launched its demo version, offering an exciting free-to-play-and-earn experience that aims to enhance the NEAR ecosystem by boosting user count and transactions. Check out the demo here
C’est la vie in Paris as ETHCC 2023 wraps up. As we reflect on these dynamic days, it’s clear that the future of NEAR and the BOS is exciting and full of potential. From environmental commitments to bold collaborations and fascinating talks, NEAR’s Parisian journey was full of engagement, enlightenment, and enthusiasm for everyone involved.
Octopus Network Partners with NEAR
COMMUNITY
March 17, 2021
The NEAR Ecosystem is excited to welcome Octopus Network onto NEAR Protocol. As a decentralized appchain network, Octopus Network inaugurates a new frontier of innovation on NEAR Protocol for the hundreds of developers and entrepreneurs looking to launch applications on their own blockchain. 

Notably, the NEAR Foundation has reached an agreement with the Octopus Foundation to invest one million dollars, so as to become Octopus Network’s exclusive strategic investor.

While Octopus Network has tested out multiple Layer 1 blockchains including Cosmos, Polkadot, and others, they have selected NEAR to be the ‘mother-chain’ of the network. Faster than Cosmos Chains, and more affordable and scalable than Polkadot ‘Parachains’, NEAR Protocol welcomes the Octopus Team and the multiple communities interested in launching appchains on Octopus Network! 

A New Frontier of Innovation on NEAR Protocol: Octopus Appchains
Octopus Network Relay will launch as a smart contract on NEAR to provide a foundational infrastructure for a validator marketplace between validators, and appchains launched through Octopus. As a home for developers and entrepreneurs looking to launch their own blockchain with customizable crypto-economic and governance parameters, Octopus Network provides affordable and easy integration with NEAR. In line with this design, Octopus Network is built around the OCT Token: A fungible, non-inflationary utility token, that is required for staking on different appchains built on top of the protocol. Validators secure Octopus appchains in return for appchain’s native token rewards. 

“Octopus provides out-of-the-box security, interoperability, and on-chain governance to projects looking to create a specific chain for their application.”

Economically: Validators stake OCT Tokens to earn rewards from the respective application chains on Octopus Network. OCT Tokens are non-inflatable., 

Governance: OCT Token holders do not partake in the governance of different application-chains: That opportunity is left to native token holders of the respective chain. 

 

In the long term, Octopus Network will function as a composable means by which applications can operate with different security parameters on NEAR: Some applications may not need such high security from validators in order to prosper, while others may require more over time. Octopus Network effectively allows for developers on NEAR to quickly spin-up applications with low security in a cost-effective manner and with respect to unique crypto-economic or governance parameters. 

Illia Polosukhin, Co-Founder of NEAR commented:

“NEAR’s vision is to give people control of their money, data and power of governance. To do that NEAR is building and funding various efforts for developers to build applications with such properties. Octopus’ multi-chain network architecture allows developers to cheaply and easily spin up self governed app chains. Unlocking use cases which normally wouldn’t be a good fit for a shared smart contract platform. It’s exciting to closely partner with the Octopus team, who have been working on multi-chain interoperability for the past few years to bring this to reality.”

Notably, the team behind Octopus Network is exceptionally talented and experienced in both crypto and mainstream software development: With a team of eight engineers, they have successfully built IBC for Substrate, and also offered the initial Substrate online training course in China with other Substrate enthusiasts (from which a number of projects have originated from). Most notably, they are also active participants and co-organizers of the Rust community in China (they actively organize RustCon in China). 

Octopus Network:

“We’re excited to form a strategic partnership with NEAR Protocol. NEAR has been widely recognized as one of the best technical teams in the whole blockchain space.” said Louis Liu, founder of Octopus Network. “Sharding, layer 2, and multi-chains are the most promising potential architectures of next generation blockchains, each having unique value and advantages over the others. The future of the blockchain universe will most likely involve all these architectures which will coexist with each other. NEAR Protocol has been in the leading position of homogeneous sharding protocols. By teaming with NEAR, Octopus could launch a novel multi-chains network in 2021, which provides unprecedented flexible cost effective shared security and interoperability to appchains. By leveraging a prosperous and sustainable appchain ecosystem together with partners, Octopus Network has the potential to take the lead in multi-chain direction.”

With appchains deployed on NEAR through Octopus Network, a world of new applications, crypto-economic models, governance mechanisms and decentralized solutions are poised to launch on NEAR Protocol.

About NEAR Protocol: 

NEAR exists to to accelerate the world’s transition to open technologies by growing and enabling a community of developers and creators. NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity with the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands. NEAR’s unique account model allows developers to build secure apps that consumers can actually use similarly to today’s web apps, something which requires multiple second-layer add-ons on other blockchains.

Technically speaking, NEAR Protocol is a brand new public, proof-of-stake blockchain which is built using a novel consensus approach called Doomslug. NEAR Protocol uses a new sharding mechanism called Nightshade which splits the network into multiple pieces so that the computation is done in parallel. Parallelism radically increases throughput and allows the network to scale up as the number of nodes on it increases. With NEAR, there isn’t a theoretical limit on the network’s capacity.

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. If you want to be part of the NEAR community, join our Discord or Telegram channels or follow NEAR on Twitter. 

 About Octopus Network: 
Octopus Network is a decentralized appchain network natively built on NEAR Protocol. Octopus provides out-of-the-box security, interoperability, and on-chain governance to projects looking to create a specific chain for their open web application. The Octopus Network Relay runs as a smart contract on NEAR Protocol, provides the infrastructure for a validator marketplace between validators, and Octopus appchains. Built around the $OCT Token – a fungible, non-inflationary utility token – Octopus allows for flexible security, and autonomous governance for any application looking to launch their own appchain. .

Visit Octopus on their website, say hello via their Twitter, or see the BUIDL on Github . You can also read news on their Medium and check out their Discord server.


Community Update – Beyond Launch
COMMUNITY
October 27, 2020
Hello citizens of NEARverse! This is NiMA coming to you from a NEARby planet in the Milky Chain …

We have collectively voted to remove the training wheels from the NEAR blockchain and are now in the post-launch phase. The fate of NEAR is now in the hands of the NEAR community. Validators, token holders, users, and builders all play a significant role in what happens next … 

… which is why we would like to invite every single one of you to join us in the next NEAR Community Town Hall on Nov 2nd on Hopin! 


NEAR Core team members will share updates about our NEAR-term roadmap, wallet and staking, projects building on NEAR, and tons of cool stuff from our community of Guilds and Hackathon participants. You will also be able to interact directly with other community members in breakout sessions and find out how YOU can contribute to the NEAR ecosystem 🚀

The breakout sessions will be the following (happening in parallel):

Deep Tech – lead and moderated by Illia and AlexS (NEAR co-founders) 
Wallet and Staking – moderated by Kendall Cole with participation from validators
Guilds and Hack the Rainbow – moderated by Dani and NiMA (dev community team)
Don’t forget to sign up for NEAR Town Hall here on Hopin 🙌

Balancer BUIDLing on NEAR 
Automated Market Makers (aka AMMs) are one of the core building blocks of any open finance platform. We are partnering with Balancer to provide builders on NEAR with the best tools to power their DeFi projects.
Balancer is more than just a DEX. In addition to basic DEX functionalities, Balancer can also be used for creating and managing self-balancing smart index funds, fair token launches, and much more. You can read more about our collaboration and the two bounties powering Balancer on NEAR here on our blog! 

Hack the Rainbow Winners!
Hack the Rainbow was NEAR’s first MOOH (Massive Open Online Hackathon). The event challenged community members to use the Rainbow Bridge to utilize Ethereum assets on NEAR—a fast, scalable, and low-cost environment. More than 400 participants and 80 projects from 18 countries around the world were submitted! Meet the winners.

 

Development Updates: 
Stakewars is ending, but we have other exciting opportunities for you:
https://pages.near.org/blog/stake-wars-is-over-but-were-just-getting-started/

Inflationary reward are live on NEAR: 

https://pages.near.org/blog/staking-rewards-are-live/

Vincent, one of our Hack the Rainbow hackers, write about bridging NFTs from Ethereum to NEAR: 

https://medium.com/@vince0656/bridging-ethereum-nfts-to-near-505a272ec949

Engineering updates: 

We have significantly reduced our memory footprint on restart
We now can attribute and measure memory usage by all of our Rust code
We made some improvements to our archival nodes (1 and2)
We decided to not micro-optimize our gas counter for now
We made improvements to how we test cross-contract calls, based on the community feedback.
We have multiple new design discussions that we invite community to participate in:

Discussion: Upgrade triggering mechanism. Enabling EVM
Proposal: Solving state staking issue
Proposal: Allowance-free safe-based token standard
Bootstrapping native NEAR ecosystem
Proposal: Fee upgrade process
Calling all Founders! 🚀
Batch 2 applications for OWC Accelerator are now open! Our batch 1 teams have raised over $15m this year. Ready to join the collective? Apply Now: https://www.openwebcollective.com/

Details:

Program Dates: Jan – Mar 2021 
Program Highlights: Over 30+ mentors, 100+ VC connections and Demo Day with 300+ attendees 
Applicants are selected on a rolling basis. (We’ll likely find our 15 teams prior to the application deadline 12/11/20)
Potential investment from OWC seed fund (launching this year!)
Who Should Apply:

Early startups anywhere in the world that are post-concept, prelaunch, or recently post-launch
That’s it for this update. See you in the next one!
A NEAR Project Update in the Age of COVID
COMMUNITY
April 3, 2020
The base of contributors to the NEAR project has increased over the past several months and the global macro picture is obviously in chaos so I wanted to use this opportunity to provide the first of a regular series of updates on the project as a whole. I’ll start by addressing the macro environment and will then provide project-specific notes.

Obviously, the star of this act is COVID-19 but it is sufficiently well-introduced that I won’t re-state the current crisis other than to say that I hope you’re safe and taking proper precautions.

The Macro Environment
“Only when the tide goes out do you discover who’s been swimming naked.” — Warren Buffett

I run the NEAR Foundation now but my early career took a somewhat turbulent path. I joined the trading floor of a bank in New York City in mid-2007 and had a front-row seat for the global financial crisis during the following two years before joining BP Energy just in time for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. While each crisis has its own flavor, echoes of both experiences reverberate in today’s environment.

This is where luck, preparation, and strategy combine to forge the next generation of success stories and to expose the cracks in the poorly constructed foundations of others.

After spending the last decade enjoying one of the longest and steadiest economic expansions in history, both people and institutions are not well set up right now to handle a deleveraging and slowdown. There has been too much yield chasing, too much operational leveraging and too much picking up speculative nickels before metaphorical bulldozers. 

The effects of this unwind could be felt in a series of bear waves over the next couple of years before we finally reconfigure our social, operational and financial expectations properly to handle the new macro reality. Even a V-shaped recovery will leave lasting effects because attitudes towards risk don’t shift on a dime.

Some effects are obvious but worth restating:

Back to “risk-off”: Risk tolerance will be reduced and the funding environment will be lean, not just for protocol projects but for all of the smaller teams that make up these ecosystems. It’s possible that massive government spending and money printing will prop up asset prices and slosh into a new bubble soon but the default reality will still be tighter.
You must create tangible value: Everyone’s focus has shifted lower down on Maslow’s Hierarchy and abstract vision-oriented pitches will no longer resonate (though they were getting old in this market already). Creating tangible near-term value will be king, whether for end-users or projects or purchasers.
Startups will fail: In the short term, lean companies will have significant pressure to shut down operations as their revenue sources higher up the food chain call-off contracts and stop sending in new business. Every startup that relies on continuous funding to meet its growth trajectory is going to have a lot more difficulty finding that and we will see a lot of empires fall due to that pressure. While the worst outcomes will only affect a minority of projects overall, the perception it creates will make it more challenging for everyone else.
Remote first/digital is king: The world just got a sharp wake-up call to move remote-first with everything from enterprise teams to government entitlement programs. It’s a trend that already had product/market fit and now just got a massive influx of new trial users and a reduction in red tape.
Risk and opportunity go hand-in-hand in this environment. Some factors will likely work in our favor:

Community: It has been a very challenging market for the attention of talented contributors over the last few years and the above factors will certainly loosen this. We expect that our core teams will have an easier time hiring, contracting or otherwise soliciting help from very talented individuals.
Openness to change: People typically only change habits, behaviors, and brands during a series of small windows in their lives — graduation, marriage, physical moves, parenthood, etc — and otherwise prefer what’s consistent. This crisis has created the biggest global change event since the world wars and will absolutely create windows for introducing new behaviors and products. While the value proposition has to be much more tangible to succeed, people are in a rare state of collective openness to new ideas.
Quality rises: The signal-to-noise ratio will further clarify to support high-quality projects as weaker hands let go and potential competition for airtime and mindshare shut down. It will still be challenging to pitch as an alternative to incumbent projects and behaviors but there will be less foolish salesmanship to compete against.
There is always a balance to strike between being bold and foolish but we’re in this space to change the world and that requires the ability to act decisively and take measured risk. We’re going to constantly lookout for opportunities over the coming months and years to “be bold while others are scared” while still protecting the project’s long term ability to survive.

The NEAR Project
Overall, the NEAR project is in a strong position to thrive in this environment through the fortunate combination of good timing and an effective strategy. Efforts that were already underway when this crisis hit has made it relatively seamless to shift from “peace mode” into “war mode”.

I’ll dig into the risks and opportunities for each major area below.

Financial
Our fundraising activities took place at the right time and we have over 20 months of runway to operate going forward, which supports the efforts of over 40 fulltime contributors and a half dozen organizations plus room to bring in new contributors in key areas. Obviously, as a layer 1 on the final countdown to a decentralized launch, the future funding roadmap and its implications for NEAR are quite a bit different than they are for a typical VC-funded startup.

The crypto markets aren’t as exuberant as before but have actually held up better than expected and represent one of the biggest extrinsic risks to the project since they affect long term interest in the space and mid-term fundraising opportunities to support post-launch activities.

Operations
The teams behind NEAR were about ¾ remote-first when this started and so it was hardly any change when we asked contributors who normally work from an office (eg in SF) to please stay home. That occurred over a month ago and, aside from the challenges some people have working with kids on-premises, the disruption to operations has generally been offset by a greater sense of community among the contributors and the 100% embrace of remote-first communication. The SF-based team decided to hold off on signing a new office space in favor of testing full-remote for a while longer.

Launch Roadmap
On the technical side, we have been undergoing a “Descopening” effort since the micro-conf in BA two months ago. That means aggressively cutting scope on any features of the core network that aren’t “must-haves” for launch (and can reasonably be added afterward), cutting opportunistic team additions and embracing a Cosmos-style staggered launch strategy. So, rather than representing a hard pivot from the plan, the increased urgency to launch provided by macro events merely requires us to stay the course along that path.

We’ll be releasing a public launch roadmap shortly so it is easier for projects, contributors and anyone else to understand what hurdles lie between us and MainNet. It will also help people better understand how the network start-up is likely to look and what we expect to have included in that effort. Here’s a peek:

Community
On the community side, the shift to remote has helped us focus. We will shortly announce a large-scale effort to build a new kind of remote summit that unites the other layer 1 protocols on the path to expanding the market together. It’s the kind of thing that could only breakthrough in an environment where every live event has been canceled and developers around the world are bored at home.

Outro
This is a challenging environment but from such times are born stronger projects. The space as a whole still has to overcome the existential challenge of making blockchain-based applications provide tangible value to developers, businesses and consumers in the Real World. And NEAR Protocol is still the technology that gives developers the tools to do this.

So please keep referring to us the teams who need a performance edge for their projects, the developers who love hacking at home and the top tier operators who find themselves between gigs. We have bugs to squash, articles to translate, demos to write, teams to lead and components to build as we make our way ever closer to launch.

COVID won’t get us down. It may even make us stronger.

 

All the best,

Erik


Enter the Black Dragon: NEAR Co-Founder Joins the NEAR Foundation as CEO
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 7, 2023
The NEAR Foundation announced today that Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol, has been appointed NEAR Foundation CEO to lead the NEAR ecosystem into the next phase of building an open web. As the person who has driven the vision for NEAR from the very beginning, there is no one better to oversee the growth of the NEAR Open Web Ecosystem and guide the constellation of teams building on NEAR to work together towards that common vision. From the earliest days of NEAR, Illia’s vision of an open web has guided the development of the ecosystem and served as a north star for the Foundation. In his new role as CEO, he will be able to realize that vision in a more direct and streamlined way. 

“I’m honored and excited to officially join the NEAR Foundation and continue working together with the ecosystem to build towards our shared vision of an open web,” said Illia Polosukhin about his new role. “Effectively coordinating a decentralized ecosystem involves a lot of iteration and experimentation and I’m proud that NEAR has committed to refining this process since the very beginning. I believe this next step in our shared evolution will help us build our respective verticals faster and work together more efficiently.” 

With his ability to bring together key nodes and align people across the ecosystem, Illia has always been a powerful guiding force for NEAR, something that his new role will allow him to continue and expand. As NEAR cements its position as the entry point to an open web, Illia’s appointment will help to create common work streams across the organization and broader ecosystem organizations that will help accelerate this journey. Combining a decentralized ecosystem approach with a more streamlined strategic coordination function will accelerate NEAR into its next phase of evolution, the details of which Illia will share at this week’s NEARCON. 

To help ensure the ecosystem nodes building this open web vision are coordinating effectively, Chris Donovan will be stepping into the position of NEAR Foundation COO to oversee the day-to-day operations of the Foundation, and will also remain as a member of the NEAR Foundation Council. Chris has been essential in this transition to a founder-led organization, and the Foundation and the whole ecosystem extend gratitude and appreciation for his work.

With a clear vision, strong leadership, an engaged ecosystem, and a passionate community all building towards a common vision, NEAR is poised to take its next bold step into an open web. All members of the NEAR community are invited to join this week for the biggest, most exciting NEARCON ever in Lisbon, or tune in virtually at nearcon.org starting Wednesday, November 8. You won’t want to miss the chance to hear exciting announcements and strategy updates from Illia, demos from top projects across the ecosystem, and leading perspectives from the Web3 industry during three days of talks, hackathons, and celebration.  
NEAR Community in Focus: NEAR Regional Hubs
COMMUNITY
June 20, 2022
Across the NEAR ecosystem and beyond its digital borders, there is frequent talk of NEAR’s infinite scalability. But leveraging scalability, fast transactions, and low costs to reimagine the future ultimately requires a vibrant NEAR community. This is where NEAR Regional Hubs come in. 

As portals into a multi-faceted, ever-evolving ecosystem, NEAR Regional Hubs are communities where new projects and teams can meet and learn from Web3 natives and early adopters. Led by local entrepreneurs, and operating as independent legal entities, NEAR Regional Hubs are crucial in helping NEAR Foundation reach its missions and objectives around the world. With fully operational outposts in Asia, the Balkans, Ukraine, and Kenya, these hubs are vibrant incubators of Web3 communities, talent, and products. 

To get a better idea of how they operate and what each is up to, let’s take a deep dive into NEAR Regional Hubs. 

NEAR Regional Hubs: Mission, structure and operations
“Each hub has its own flavor,” says Grace Torrellas, NEAR Foundation’s Head of Regional Hubs. “No hub is expected to be a specific way, or follow the same organization or structure.” 

Hubs tend to follow one of two primary approaches: local awareness and education or product lab and ecosystem fund. In the first, hubs generate local awareness and onboard new users, as well as support project building on NEAR. There are also activations through press releases, IRL events, and major local blockchain or tech events. Hubs that opt for this approach, like NEAR Kenya, are major drivers of NEAR Education programs, creating opportunities for developers and students to learn Web3 skills.

The hub as a product lab or ecosystem fund drives adoption by working closely with projects from idea to execution. They also create partnerships with relevant organizations and government agencies. These hubs function like incubators with fundraising, accelerator, community building, and user acquisition functions.

NEAR Asia: The first and largest regional hub
Led by Amos Zhang, a Web3 investor and entrepreneur, NEAR Asia has undergone quite an evolution since inception. What began as an organizing force for NEAR’s Chinese community, it’s expanded to now include Korea and Vietnam.  Featuring a product lab and ecosystem fund, along with $5M in funding from Metaweb, NEAR Asia is an active incubator of Web3 projects. 

The hub has also been instrumental in helping the NEAR Foundation secure funding for Web3 talent and project development. NEAR Asia supports users, developers and entrepreneurs in Asia by hosting events, hackathons, translated content, and more.

“Half of global internet users are in Asia, home to apps like WeChat, Alipay, and Metituan,” says Zhang. “Mobile payments are also highly common in many Asian countries like China and Korea. This creates a great base and perfect fit for adopting blockchain technology, and NEAR’s mission has always been to make blockchain easy and usable by mainstream users.”

The NEAR Chinese community is one of the largest communities in Greater China. Over 50,000 users engage in various community-hosted channels. And many developers and entrepreneurs are actively building on NEAR. 

In late 2021, NEAR Asia partnered with Alibaba’s Taobao for its Maker Festival. Hosted by China’s leading e-commerce platform, which generated more than $500 billion USD in revenue in 2020, Taobao Maker Festival (TMF) is an annual summit for top creators and innovators from the Taobao community. Taobao debuted “Too Rich City,” the first and only public chain-based NFTs created by artist Huang Heshan.

Zhang says that Vietnam is one of NEAR’s biggest communities, with more than 30,000 members. This community is highly active on Telegram, Facebook, and Discord. The Vietnamese community recently partnered with GFS to run online education events to promote the NEAR ecosystem and educate both investors and developers.

NEAR Ukraine: A hub within a hub
Activated in late 2021, the Ukraine Hub is very much developer-oriented. But Anton Vaisburd, who leads the Ukraine Regional Hub, sees a multi-faceted community. 

“From one point of view, we’re an independent organization and kind of a for-profit organization,” says Vaisburd. “On the other, we’re a regional hub and community of people building on NEAR. We’re helping everybody out of Ukraine, building the product lab, and deeply connected with the foundation as a whole ecosystem.”

NEAR Ukraine’s venture arm includes a product lab, which funds projects building on NEAR. The hub also performs marketing and PR functions, as well as organizing events like hackathons, conferences, and more. 

Amidst NEAR Ukraine’s hustle and bustle, the war in Ukraine weighs heavily on the community.

“There hasn’t been a single hour we haven’t thought about it,” says Vaisburd. “I would love to say that it’s business as usual, but it’s not. You’re thinking about the importance of not only building social initiatives like helping Ukrainian refugees but also supporting the government and army, and trying to fight Russia in every way possible.”

“What we realized is that we should do what we can do best, and that’s build products,” Vaisburd adds. “We’re trying to work harder because the better we work, the better we can actually perform, and the more we can pay taxes and support Ukraine.”

With its current home in Lisbon, NEAR Ukraine is hub within a hub. The community is keenly aware of this. So NEAR Ukraine is creating an inclusive atmosphere in Lisbon, where local citizens, refugees, and expats from around the world can gather.

“We’re trying to build a Web3 community for all in Lisbon,” says Vaisburd. “Soon, we’re going to announce our crypto summer house, where we are going to gather everyone, plan events, and host hackathons.”

NEAR Balkans: Seven countries, one Web3 hub
NEAR Balkans, which officially launched two months ago, started to coalesce in the summer of 2021. That’s when crypto natives Edi Sinovcic and Luka Sucic—the hub’s co-founders and current advisors—decided to unite Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Slovenia into a single Web3 community. 

Ida Pandur, the General Manager of NEAR Balkans, says the hub has three primary areas of focus: Web3 education and community building, partnerships with traditional businesses, and product development. 

“Basically, the idea was to bring seven countries into the hub, into a community,” says Pandur. “Educate the community about Web3, about the opportunities, and how NEAR is the main facilitator of these Web3 opportunities within the region.”

Community building and Web3 education at NEAR Balkans has already included a number of local meetups across the Balkans. The hub is also sponsoring specific Web3 conferences and building relationships with universities to attract students. 

“We are also preparing custom-made education for the developers to get certified on NEAR and Web3,” says Pandur. “We believe once you educate the market, then it’s easier to do everything else.”

Parallel to education, NEAR Balkans works with both traditional and Web3 companies interested in Web3 integration. To help facilitate this process, the hub distributes grants to projects they see as showing potential. The hub is also available to companies looking to transition to NEAR from other Web3 platforms; and to individuals and teams looking to build projects from scratch. 

“We have our own research and development lab, and are looking to launch three products in the next few months,” Pandur says. “Two products are going to be in the DeFi space, and the other is going to be an NFT product. So, products are going to be a main focus of our hub.”

NEAR Kenya: Spreading word of Web3
NEAR Kenya is taking a different tack by building community from the ground up. 

“What’s lacking on the ground is predominantly a basic understanding of blockchain and why it’s important,” says Kevin Imani, NEAR Kenya Hub General Manager and Sankore Guild founder.

Community members want to learn about Web3. But job prospects are also top of mind. To meet these needs, NEAR Kenya funnels individuals into NEAR Education programs. 

“We’re promoting NEAR Education different certification programs,” says Imani. “We’re also getting involved with universities. By that I mean having a stand in a college hallway and telling students, hey, we have this thing going on this Saturday. Just come and we’ll break down some of these principles.”

“We’re replicating NEAR Education content and breaking it down to the basics,” says Imani. “The end goal is to get them a job. So, hopefully, we’ll have one of the first Africa-based developer shops, where developers can be hired from other parts of the NEAR ecosystem, and jump on really exciting projects.” 

Imani believes these efforts will bear future fruit—a self-sustaining Web3 community in Kenya and neighboring countries. One built on a playbook based on speed, execution, inclusivity, and scalability.

“The playbook will showcase how a Layer 1 protocol can be leveraged to implement blockchain in Eastern Africa, and do it effectively,” says Imani. “A 360-degree experience of someone who’s never been exposed to Web3, making sure there’s a space for them, all the way to bringing apps built by local talent onto NEAR mainnet. And just solving problems from infrastructure to decentralized finance, etc, in our respective region.” 

“Within a few years we’ll have some components in place, although it won’t be perfect,” Imani says. “Something tangible where we can say, ‘Hey, guys, we actually built something totally new.’”

Bringing NEAR hubs to other regions
Many other NEAR Regional Hubs are in active development. The LATAM Regional Hub, which would include several Latin American countries, is currently in the works. The hub is spearheaded by Claudio Cossio, founder of Metapool and Hispano Guild, an early NEAR Guild. 

“The LATAM Hub will focus more on education, and there are two programs that are quite critical in that education pipeline,” says Torrellas. “NEAR-certified developer and NEAR certified entrepreneur. Those two will allow the hub to pair the students with projects.” 

NEAR Foundation is now focusing on India, home to a large number of developers and strong interest in Web3. The government has even expressed interest in having NEAR be part of university curricula. This hub will feature both education and innovation.”

Torrellas says a hub in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) is another area of interest. Many successful Indian developers have moved to Dubai, making the UAE a natural fit for a NEAR Regional Hub. And, of course, the United States will also feature a number of Hub Nodes forming part of the NEAR Regional Hubs network. Efforts are now underway to begin establishing hubs in Austin,  San Francisco, New York City, and Miami. 

“There are so many places in the world where we know great opportunities seed, we are at the best time to build strong local connections and get people on board,” says Torrellas. “We need to focus on where those opportunities are.”
Use Case Spotlight: Nuclo
CASE STUDIES
October 19, 2018
We are starting a new blog series that shows use cases that will be enabled via scalable decentralized blockchain very soon. In the first blog in these series, the team at Nuclo provides the overview of their new platform as well as sheds light on one of the first use cases that involve Chilean Government and an entirely new approach to the supply chain for biomass purchasing. The initial deployment will have to support 10,000 active daily users, which requires a scalable, decentralized protocol underlying the Nuclo platform.

Intro to what Nuclo offers

The Nuclo platform (https://nuclo.io) is the first AMS (Application Management System) for blockchain applications. It requires no coding experience. It allows developers to use drag and drop components to achieve the required functionality.

Background into the initial use case and subsequent Nuclo learnings

The Nuclo team initially set out to reduce the cost of producing renewable energy by removing middlemen and ended up building the largest sales channel for biomass in Chile in 3-months. The team received an introduction to one of the largest biomass producers in southern Chile and they agreed to sell their entire inventory through Nuclo platform if they could deliver against three core features. It had to reduce the amount carbon emissions related to the burning of wet biomass, it had to reduce the cost of supply chain logistics, and it had to allow end users to purchase biomass directly from producers without middlemen intervention.

The Nuclo team spent time on ride-alongs with distributors, walking through processing camps, and talking to different stakeholders throughout Chile. The research resulted in the creation of an application called LeñaHoy. It connected all of the participants of the biomass supply chain together and established the most cost-efficient and reliable way of producing tangible products. The platform reduced the cost of producing and transporting biomass by 31% and allowed consumers to purchase clean-burning dry biomass that was certified as safe. Nuclo team learned two core lessons that drastically influenced their next steps.

Lesson one was that even though they drastically disrupted the industry they were not biomass salespeople. Lesson two was that the approach that Nuclo took for connecting supply chain participants including end consumers was industry agnostic. The team realized that they could have an impact on any fragmented supply chain so they decided to build a protocol that would enable others to enhance their own supply chains using the best practices that Nuclo team discovered.

As Nuclo conducted more research, supported more businesses, interviewed teams around the world, and documented similar experiences, the team realized that their protocol like many others would be inaccessible to the majority of the world. This led them to develop an application management software that makes Nuclo protocol and others accessible via a graphical plug and play interface.

Challenges with the current development on the blockchain

In order to build your own blockchain technology, or deploy a product that is based on distributed ledger technology (DLT) your team must have a deep understanding of smart-contracts, core consensus algorithms and launching/maintaining multi-node networks; all of which a very small percentage of the world has an actual understanding of. In addition, when looking to apply this technology to supply-chains, it requires an industry level understanding of the nuances of the said production process. As such, Nuclo team functions as the bridge between this low-level technology and the business/network creators with the real world impact.

How will the process be improved in the future

Key business leaders at an organization who has no knowledge of smart contracts nor low-level blockchain technology will be able to deploy their own blockchain-based technology. They will be able to spin up their own basic MVP or full end-to-end product.

Why blockchain is a key to Nuclo’s use case

Nuclo team truly believes this is a question up to their user base. What the team realized is that specifically blockchain technology can revolutionize a number of different industries but it needs to be applied in a way to impact real lives. Initially, Nuclo team used their system as a test case for applying blockchain technology in supply-chains with an emphasis on provenance and traceability of products. This is a very clear and readily valuable application of the blockchain (or DLT) technology give the various amounts of actors in a supply-chain and the lack of uniformity of systems. Now, Nuclo team functions more as a technical partner and continue to actively engage with organizations, institutions, and governments who find novel applications with the blockchain and Nuclo enables them to quickly deploy a prototype around traceability using their platform.

How scalability is a key to Nuclo’s use case

Given Nuclo team operates in a variety of industries, supply-chains, and end-consumer applications, it is essential to building a system that can scale and always be live for our users. Nuclo protocol has the capacity to be blockchain agnostic which adds to the scalability requirements they face.

What other important considerations are key to this use case

On top of scalability, security and high transaction throughput are considerations Nuclo team takes into account when building for their user base.

To follow our progress you can use:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Medium — https://medium.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp,
https://upscri.be/633436/
An Update on the NDC Funding and Support for Grassroots Projects
COMMUNITY
August 18, 2023
Executive Summary

The Foundation has set the future of funding for the NDC based on significant milestones post V1 Governance
The launch of the Grassroots Support Initiative where projects in need of funding or support can engage directly with the NEAR Foundation to discuss options in the interim of direct support from the NDC 
If you are looking for support, you can schedule time with the team here
One of the central tenets of Web3 is decentralisation. Decentralisation is central to creating an open web because it underpins an ecosystem’s anti-fragility, sustainability, scalability, and censorship resistance (amongst other important characteristics). A core part of a decentralised ecosystem is a robust self-governance infrastructure that empowers users and the community.

Decentralisation is something that has guided the Foundation as a northstar, but as in all emerging fields sometimes the path toward that goal can be winding, complicated, and messy. That’s why we thought it would be important to take a moment to discuss the place of the NDC on that journey, the steps ahead, and how we can help the community get the support it needs along the way. 

Back in August 2022, the Community Working Group was formed by a collection of prominent NEAR community nodes with the purpose of establishing a new framework and implementation plan for ecosystem self-governance infrastructure and an associated treasury that could help ensure the ecosystem would continue on its path to decentralisation while giving everyone the chance to have their voice heard. This is how and why the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) was formed. 

As the champion supporting the creation of decentralised governance infrastructure, the NDC plays an important role in the future of the NEAR ecosystem. Decentralised governance infrastructure will enable the community to vote (using an on-chain mechanism) on the allocation of funds, help ensure that decisions are made in a fair and representative manner, and further decentralise the NEAR ecosystem, something that is important both philosophically and practically for the healthy development of any Web3 ecosystem.

So far, the NDC has already successfully launched the NDC Community Treasury, the IAMHuman voting initiative and V0 Governance, all major milestones for the ecosystem and vital pieces of governance infrastructure.

Funding for the NDC
Understanding the important role that the NDC can play in the future of the ecosystem, the NEAR Foundation is fully committed to its long term success. Of the Foundation’s treasury, a substantial portion has been earmarked for community initiatives like the NDC, which the Foundation intends to advance to the NDC Community Treasury over time as the ecosystem’s governance infrastructure matures.

In order to further support the mission of the NDC as they continue to make progress, the Foundation is announcing today that it will provide an advance to the NDC Community Treasury in the region of 15M NEAR, subject to the successful completion of the V1 Governance elections. The criteria for this initial treasury advance will include (a) all V1 Governance elected positions being filled; and (b) the implementation by the community of a standardized funding request framework as a benchmark for responsible work moving forward.

After this initial advance, the Foundation is also reiterating its commitment to further treasury advances (up to 100M NEAR). These further advances will be based on careful work with the community to set out specific criteria for milestones that will ensure funds are deployed responsibly and in a way that helps achieve the long-term goals of the wider ecosystem. 

Once V1 Governance is live, the community will be able to create success metrics for the NDC and vote on them as a collective with the support of the Foundation and other ecosystem nodes. 

The Foundation is also aware that, as a result of various delays with the launch of V1 Governance, the NDC Community Treasury is close to reaching the original USD1.5m V0 Governance budget cap contained in the NDC Community Treasury trust instrument. To ensure the community can continue to move forwards to the critical goal of V1 Governance launch, the Foundation will support the NDC Community Treasury by providing an additional USD400k buffer above that original budget cap.

The NDC nominations for all 3 houses in V1 Governance are currently live until September 7th, with elections then kicking off on September 8th and running until September 22nd. We would encourage anyone who is interested in getting involved in this critical ecosystem milestone, and playing a role in steering the ecosystem forwards, to nominate themselves.

Support for grassroots projects
As part of the Foundation’s commitment to decentralisation and ensuring the voice of the community is heard, the Foundation announced in November 2022 that in most instances it would stop providing capital to the ecosystem through grants and instead have the NDC gradually take over that responsibility. While the Foundation understands that grants are a vital resource for grassroots projects to build and grow, we believed it was important to support moving them to a more decentralised model.  

However, since the timeline to implement V1 Governance has taken longer than anticipated, we recognise that ecosystem funding has been more limited, which has put significant pressure on builders in the ecosystem. Concerns around funding have been a major topic of discussion in the community over the last few weeks, and the Foundation appreciates that the community has rallied together to surface these issues in an open and constructive way. This feedback has helped the Foundation understand that it should have moved more quickly to provide interim support. 

To help address this issue, and to better support grassroots projects who are in need of support while the NDC continues to ramp up, the Foundation is launching a grassroots support initiative for any project in the ecosystem that is currently in need of urgent support. The Ecosystem Relations team is leading on the initiative from the Foundation and they have set up an open calendar for community members to connect directly with them to discuss how the Foundation can best support. 

Projects will be able to ask for emergency support, either financial or otherwise, by booking time with the team. This initiative will remain in place until NDC funding options become more readily available. While the Foundation will not be able to fund every request, we are committed to carefully reviewing every one we receive and prioritizing them based on immediate need and how well they line up with the goals of the broader ecosystem. 

You can book time with the Ecosystem Relations Team here.

Grassroots projects and the community are the lifeblood of the NEAR ecosystem and the Foundation is committed to ensuring projects have the resources they need as we continue to create a thriving, decentralised ecosystem together.
FastAuth SDK Beta Now Available
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 2, 2023
Developers can now start integrating FastAuth into their dApps for a seamless, intuitive onboarding experience with the FastAuth SDK, now in Beta.

Onboarding new users is one of the biggest hurdles for Web3 dApps. Creating a Web3 wallet is still a painful process for most users who are new to crypto, because it usually involves downloading an app or browser extension, purchasing cryptocurrency on an exchange, and understanding and saving a seed phrase. For these reasons, conversion rates for new user sign-ups tend to be very low in Web3 as compared to Web2.

What is FastAuth?
FastAuth addresses this problem through a familiar, “Web2-like” onboarding flow: users can sign up with just an email, and they don’t need to save a seed phrase or password. Instead, their FastAuth account and keys are secured using “Passkeys,” a new technology that replaces passwords with biometrics such as fingerprints or FaceID linked to a device. 

Users can also recover access to their account at any time by using their email through the “MPC recovery” service. Developers can also choose to subsidize gas costs for a certain smart contract so that users can start interacting with their dApp immediately, without having to fund their own account. 

Who can apply for the FastAuth SDK Beta?
FastAuth is currently in a closed Beta. Any developer and/or founder building NEAR apps transacting on NEAR can apply for access to the SDK. The goal of this Beta is to collect feedback from founders and developers to help inform our roadmap and upcoming releases (see more on these below). 

Pagoda will request feedback from participants in the Beta, as they start building with FastAuth.

How do I learn more and get started?
You can try FastAuth for yourself by creating a new account on near.org. 

You can also apply to be part of the beta, and check out the SDK documentation. 

What’s coming next?
Pagoda is planning to release some additional key features later this year, including the ability to “white-label” the sign-up and sign-in flows, as well as multi-chain support. 


Introducing NCON and How to Use It at NEARCON ‘23
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 6, 2023
Hello NEARians,

By now many of you are in or are en route to the magical city of Lisbon for NEARCON23! The amount of alpha dropping this week will have you weak in your knees. It’s been our mission to bring you an event that puts Web3 experiences at the forefront of NEARCON. Even better when we partner with our Community to bring you a truly social experience elevating your journeys throughout NEARCON. This year NCON makes its big debut! 

What is NCON? 
The NEAR Foundation has partnered with Jutsu, Keypom, and Veriken to create an exciting experience for you: the NCON token — an event experience built on B.O.S. NCON embodies the essence of the open web. An open web where we transact with each other on a peer to peer network. 

Interacting with sponsors, attending content sessions, paying for your lunch, will be part of the NCON experience. As you complete NCON Bounties (see the full list below), you’ll be rewarded NCON which can be redeemed for swag, lunches, and other goodies during NEARCON. 

When you check in at registration you will automatically receive 100 NCON — enough to buy lunch for 3 days and 1 piece of swag. Complete Bounties to earn more NCON and maximize your NEARCON experience. At the end of NEARCON, the top 3 NCON redeemers will receive a free trip to NEARCON24. Visit the helpdesk to verify your Bounty completions and get dropped NCON. 

Good luck and “happy bounting”!

*NCON exists for the purposes of NEARCON and NCON holds no real financial value beyond the event. Terms and conditions apply. 

NCON Bounties to complete
BOUNTY	NCON REWARD
Ticket Claim (done at registration)	100.00
We’re dropping various amounts of NCON during sessions, roundtables, firesides, panels and keynotes. The more sessions you join, the higher chance for more NCON!	1.00 – 10.00
Take a picture with the Opening Ceremony special guest and tweet “FOUNDERS, DEVELOPERS, BUILDERS #NEARCON2023”	20.00
Early Bird Drops (arrive to NEARCON or Hacker HQs between 9am and 10:30am)	5.00
Visit all three venues (tweet pictures of each venue and #NEARCON2023)	5.00
Upvote apps in the B.O.S. App Library 	5.00
Attend one of the Founders Forum sessions 	2.00
Complete the Shard Dog Engage-a-thon	2.00
Submit Pagoda User Research Survey	2.00
Shoutout your favorite thing on NEARCON Twitter #NEARCON2023	2.00
Submit a Hackathon Project	40.00
Visit the B.O.S. Booth	5.00
Visit the hacker help desk and get help on your project (or just get your NCON Drop)	2.00
Sponsor Bounties	Varies
Glass – Sign up for GLASS at www.glass.fun/signup, and tag us (@glassdotfun) in a tweet about your favorite thing you’ve eaten or drank so far at NEARCON!	5.00
Aurora – Visit Aurora booth, talk to Armand or Slava, tweet “Big Alpha coming soon on @auroraisnear” without a spoiler.	2.00
Proximity – Attend a talk featuring a Proximity team member. Post on X and tag @proximityfi	2.00
Proximity – Try out these B.O.S.-powered gateways for L2s and share your thoughts on X: Polygon zkEVM Interactive App Dashboard, Mantle Ecosystem Gateway, “B.O.S.” Store on the Coin98 Super App.	20.00
Mintbase – Minsta your NEARCON moments and earn NCON 🤳🏻
▾ Go to https://minsta.mintbase.xyz
▾ Take a photo and mint it as a NFT	8.00
Octopus – Visit us at the Octopus Network booth and tweet a picture at the booth with “Otto” tagging @oct_network and #NEARCON. 	2.00
Octopus – Interact with Octopus Network on mainnet.oct.network, in forum at forum.oct.network or at Octopus DAO on AstroDAO for a 5x multiplier bonus!	10.00
Calimero – Log in to Calimero Chat, the official chat of NEARCON, and send an epic meme! The funnier your meme, the more NCON you score! Claim them at the Calimero booth.	2.00 – 5.00
The Littles -1. Visit TheFunPass booth2. Participate in their Stick Catcher experience.	2.00
NEAR Mobile – Publish a tweet describing what you like more about @NEARMobile_app- Download NEAR Mobile (https://nearmobile.app/) and give us a review on Google Play or App Store- Follow us on Twitter (@NEARMobile_app), join our Telegram (https://t.me/NEARMobile) and subscribe to YT (@NEARMobileWallet).	2.00
NEAR Balkans – NEAR Lisbon Adventure: Collect all flags at the NEACON booths!	2.00
NEAR Balkans – POAP: Find the POAP QR code and prove your attendance at NEARCON with the Tekuno PODs!	2.00
SailGP – SailGP’s NEARcon Scavenger Hunt: Download the SailGP app and join our fan loyalty program, The Dock. Then, set off to explore NEARcon’s three venues, hunting down not one, not two, but SEVEN SailGP QR codes. Scan all seven codes using the SailGP app to snag your exclusive SailGP x NEARcon NFT. Once you’ve got your hands on it, head over to the SailGP booth, present your collectible, and get in on the action to win daily prizes on top of NCON!	5.00
How to redeem your NCON
Redeemable	NCON PRICE
LUNCH (NEARCON and HACKER HQs)	15 per visit
White t-shirt	20.00
Black t-shirt	20.00
Green t-shirt	20.00
Cream hoodie	50.00
Black hoodie	50.00
Windbreaker	50.00
Cream hat	15.00
Black hat	15.00
Water bottle	10.00
Duffle bag	50.00
Tangem Wallet V1	40
Tangem Wallet V2	40
Bottle Openers	5
Early Closing Party Access	50
Horizon Credits for Founders	30
Top 3 NCON Redeemers will receive a free trip to NEARCNO24!	—–

Refer-and-Earn Guidelines Update: Q3 2022
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 9, 2022
NEAR’s ever-growing and engaged community is one of the ecosystem’s greatest strengths. Remember the NEAR Foundation Grants team’s Refer-and-Earn Program? A number of NEAR community members participated in Refer-and-Earn in early 2022, resulting in grants for dozens of exciting projects currently building on the NEAR ecosystem.  

The Foundation has had the pleasure of seeing the community being a key contributor in providing ecosystem support and building dapps. The community does this in a number of ways, including running and sponsoring events, educating developers and entrepreneurs on the benefits of NEAR, bringing projects with active user bases from other chains, and so on.

NEAR Foundation wants to build on the community’s successes through a new incentive structure that aligns with the Grants Program (more information can be found at the Grants Program Handbook here bit.ly/Grants-Program-Handbook). 

The payout for each project referred will be awarded a total of 10% of the project awarded grant amount. This amount is awarded in nUSDC (wrapped USDC on NEAR) and is calculated at the end of each quarter.
The first half of the 5% will be awarded at the point of the contract signed.
The second half of the 5% will be awarded once all project milestones are completed. 
Refer-and-Earn: Q3 Qualified Projects
The NEAR ecosystem receives a number of your recommendations and referrals. A total of 12 quality projects emerged from Refer-and-Earn, each aligning with NEAR Foundation’s Grants program objectives. 

In no particular order, here are the Q3 2022 qualified projects: 

Scene 
Azadi Record
Vital Carbon 
Metavision Games 
Murder Mystery Collective 
MetaLordz 
Klabrate and ClimaFi
Meteor wallet 
Mintmade 
NEARKai
EVIE Marketplace 
Autify 
The Grants team has reached out to all Refer-and-Earn referrers. Thanks to your help and support, the Grants team is able to support innovative projects like those listed above. 
NEAR’s February Town Hall Highlights
COMMUNITY
March 2, 2022
Web3 is a vast, interconnected global network of open source protocols, projects, and apps. As Web3’s momentum grows, the NEAR Foundation is seeing adoption in several key regions, and town halls are where this global community meets to share, learn, teach, and push the Web3 movement and NEAR adoption forward. 

The February NEAR Town Hall was an exploration of the people and places helping the NEAR ecosystem expand both online and offline. Here is a recap of the February Town Hall, which can be seen in full on NEAR’s YouTube channel or below. 

Growing the ecosystem, talent base, and global awareness
In her opening remarks, NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament touched on a number of topics, particularly the need to bring talented makers, creative projects, and investment to the ecosystem—all of which will help NEAR reach 1 million weekly active users. 

Flament also shared some numbers from the NEAR community. Through February, the NEAR community onboarded 40,000 students and 100 NEAR-certified teachers (more on this below), while $108 million in grants are now spread across 459 recipients. The ecosystem also has over 300 projects and DAOs, 95 million transactions, and 4.2 million wallets. 

Flament also noted that NEAR boasts the fastest developer growth among blockchains, showcasing the appeal of a fast, secure and scalable platform. 

Introducing Pagoda: the first-ever Web3 startup platform
Julie Bissinger, Head of Operations at Pagoda, also spoke on the launch of Pagoda—the first-ever Web3 startup platform, which is built on NEAR. 

“We’re building the next generation of Web3 startups,” said Bissinger. “We [need] to double down on really enabling a more seamless experience for developers and entrepreneurs to launch their own Web3 businesses.” 

“While we’re building a lot, we’re also aggregating existing applications and platforms across the NEAR ecosystem into a single, simple experience,” she added. “Web3 doesn’t have Web2’s stack of tools to help startups get going… [and] every service we use now in Web2 will need to be rebuilt to integrate with WEb3 to support wallets, cryptographic primitives, and blockchain data, among many other things.”

Bissinger emphasized that Pagoda is a place for developers and entrepreneurs to quickly launch their startups, with all of the necessary tools to do so. 

Pagoda engineer Bowen Wang also gave the Town Hall audience updates on the NEAR protocol, including a raft of scaling solutions on Aurora that help it run faster. 

Updates from the Marketing Team on global awareness
Chris Ghent, NEAR Foundation’s Head of Global Brand and Partnerships, spoke about leveraging Web2 marketing strategies for Web3, including bus wrap ads in Miami during Art Basel for Mintbase’s collaboration with Deadmau5 and Portugal. the Man for the NFT single “This Is Fine”. 

“Think about artists as folks who are driving the conversation around change and adoption of new technology with partners like the Mau5trap team and Deadmau5,” he said. 

Ghent showcased recent bus ads in New York City that touted NEAR’s carbon neutral blockchain, as well as ones in San Francisco aimed at NEAR’s partnership with the privacy-preserving Brave browser (a MetaBUILD 2 sponsor), encouraging people to “be brave” and become “builders” on NEAR. The Marketing Team also promoted NEAR ecosystem news and content with partners like Reddit and Coindesk. 

Yadira Blocker, Experiential Marketing Lead at NEAR Foundation, then gave updates on the NEAR community’s activities at ETHDenver.

“Two weeks ago, NEAR activated during ETHDenver with the angle of building a multi-chain Open Web future,” said Blocker. “Our approach was broken into two parts: the first comprised the NEAR #BUIDL Week Lounge, followed by the ETH Denver hackathon. The Lounge was live for three days. We had 26 sessions total—everything from panels, talks, and networking sessions.” 

Get the full run-down by reading “NEAR at ETHDenver 2022 Highlights”. 

NEAR Education is onboarding tens of thousands of students
NEAR Education’s Sherif Abushadi highlighted the ecosystem’s expanded educational offerings.

“Since the start of the year, we have trained just about 40,000 students, 75% of those coming through training partners that we engaged a couple of quarters ago—Q3 of 2021—who are just now getting warmed up,” said Abushadi. “Only about 100 of those people have earned the exclusive NEAR Certified Developer [NCD] certification at this point by submitting original demos of their own design that have been reviewed by experts in our ecosystem.”

Abushadi noted that almost 300 universities now have active NEAR ambassadors on campus, while 30 companies are actively recruiting NEAR Certified Developers through jobs.near.university. He also spotlighted the efforts of a few individuals and groups, including Hiba M., a former NCD student who is helping bring NEAR to the Middle East.

Be sure to check out Sherif’s full talk for more education and NCD student updates, as well as information on NEAR Hispano, the effort to bring NEAR to Latin America. 

NEAR’s core funding vision
Josh Daniels, Head of Funding at NEAR Foundation, spoke on NEAR Foundation’s core funding vision.

“Over the last year or so we’ve really been spending a lot of time deeply thinking about what this funding means within the NEAR ecosystem,” said Daniels. “As part of that, we’ve developed this vision we call the NEAR Foundation Funding Platform, which is at its core focused on driving success of the platform by providing clear and efficient support across four key pillars.” 

Daniels detailed the support for the first pillar, the “Creator Triangle”, which includes ensuring that creative projects have incentives and get the necessary bootstrap funding. He also dove into funding aimed at the other three pillars: providing access to those projects supporting the ecosystem, community support, and aligning incentives by financing key deals and partners. 

Check out Josh’s presentation for 2021 funding growth numbers for NEAR projects, as well as for more information on how builders can get involved. 

NEAR partnerships and Regional Hub growth
NEAR CEO Marieke Flament returned to the virtual stage with an announcement on NEAR’s partnership with Elliptic, which will bring more robust on-chain security to the ecosystem. She also highlighted recent news that Allbridge is now integrating NEAR with EVM and non-EVM chains. 

Flament then moderated a panel on ecosystem’s focus on regional hubs. Joining Flament were Rune Bentien of Move Capital, who is leading hub efforts in the United Kingdom and Europe, and Claudio Cossio, who is doing the same in Latin America. 

This Region Hub panel is definitely worth watching in its entirety, especially for NEAR community members interested in launching hubs in other regions around the globe. 

Read NEAR in February: ETHDenver, Pagoda Launch, and More to see what the NEAR community was up to in February. 
Berklee College of Music Partners with NEAR Foundation to Build Music Licensing Platform
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 2, 2023
Berklee College of Music, the largest independent college of contemporary music and performing arts in the world, announced today a partnership with the NEAR Foundation to help build a music licensing platform. 

The agreement, which will harness NEAR Protocol’s easy-to-use tech stack, will lead to the creation of a marketplace where musicians can upload their music, and creators can license music from the students of this world-class music institution. 

The project will be released under an app called RAIDAR, which stands for Rights and Asset Information in Decentralized, Authoritative Repositories. Thanks to NEAR’s Web3 technology, all transactions will be recorded on the NEAR blockchain, ensuring a creators’ rights and representation are recorded on-chain. 

Behind Berklee’s music licensing app, built on NEAR
RAIDAR will use smart contracts to disintermediate the licensing process and ensure that musicians receive the full economic value and credit for their works. 

“This is a first of its kind product that will help to democratize the world of music by putting creators first and ensuring they are always rewarded and protected from exploitation for their original work,” says George Howard, Distinguished Professor of Music Business at Berklee. 

“Those who are seeking to license music for their projects now have a chance to access and support new creators by tapping into an exciting marketplace through the RAIDAR app, which is easy to navigate and offers a safe and reliable way to pay for music.”

RAIDAR — simple to use, accessible to all
The product is designed to be simple to use, which is a cornerstone of building on the NEAR Protocol. Musicians simply upload their music files and relevant metadata through a mobile- and desktop-friendly web app. 

Their song is then represented by a unique, secure smart contract and assigned to the creator’s wallet as an asset or NFT, empowering the creator to view and showcase the song, wherever they go.  

On the customer side, users can browse, search, and preview songs uploaded to the RAIDAR app and purchase single-use licenses for songs via the app. The song’s smart contract distributes funds received from the payment to the song’s creator. After the purchase transaction completes, the buyer receives an email with the corresponding song download link and a copy of the license agreement.

“We are extremely excited to be working with Berklee to support a new and unique use case that has real world value for those that use it,” says  Chris Donovan, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. 

“The RAIDAR app is a disruptive technology built on NEAR  that will help students to explore the power of smart contracts to ensure they are being paid fairly for their work, and that the world of music becomes more inclusive, safe and exciting for everyone.” 


Women in Web3 Changemakers: Emily Rose Dallara
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 26, 2023
“A lot of the clients I work with don’t feel that they’re ever on top of anything,” says Emily Rose Dallara, an award winning leadership coach and founder of the Web 3 and Thrive Podcast.  

Dallara is one of the 10 finalists of the 2023 Women in Web3 Changemakers List, an annual competition designed to champion women pushing boundaries in the space. Dallara, along with nine other outstanding candidates, is showing the industry the change women are bringing about during the advent of the Open Web. 

Dallara was selected because of her work helping ambitious leaders confidently succeed without constant self-doubt or working 24/7. 

“There’s always been this golden thread throughout my whole experience, which is helping other people thrive, elevating people, especially women, because we didn’t have much of a voice back then, when I first started out.” 

But Dallara’s expertise in helping others came at a personal cost. Dallara had to learn through challenging personal experiences what happens when the fast-paced world of Web3 creeps ever further into your personal life and what can happen when boundaries are not in place. 

Watch an extended NEAR Foundation video interview with Emily Rose Dallara below.

Burning out  
“I’ve had two burnouts and two layoffs, both related,” says Dallara, from her home in France.  “I just wanted to succeed. I wanted to make all the money that was promised. I wanted to learn as much as I could. And I just didn’t see another way of working. It was a 24/7 grind.”

Dallara began her Web3 journey while living in and working in Bali. “I was very much on the humanitarian side. I did a lot of work in Southeast Asia and Japan, helping with merchant onboarding, and had my own e-commerce platform for women.”

She found a niche helping young female entrepreneurs accept crypto from international clients, creating payment rails for merchants, before joining Bitcoin.com as a marketing manager. A flurry of advisory roles followed, and her CV quickly became a Who’s Who of the crypto community. 

“I just didn’t have the boundaries in place. I didn’t have a support network in place, I didn’t have the experience to prevent that from happening. So I burnt out. And then a bit later when I was a marketing director.” 

Finding a new path
After a period of recovery and reflection, Dallara began to ask herself if she wanted to stay in the industry, and if she did, what would a different path look like. And it was during this period she found that a lot of the clients and colleagues she had worked with had experienced similar issues. 

“Because it’s such a rapidly changing space that’s constantly innovating, they feel that if they don’t stay on top, or they don’t have all the information they need, or they don’t reply to Slack messages all the time, that they’re not going to succeed. That’s what they’re scared of. And so this was a fear that I carried as well. And it took me a long time to unravel that and understand that it wasn’t a valid fear.”

But Dallara used that fear to help her understand what she should do next. After qualifying as an accredited coach, she decided she wanted to help other women learn the lessons she had without having to burn out first. 

“We’re trying to create a bit of a movement. We can’t just go say to the VCs, ‘you need to train the people that you’re invested in as better leaders’. It’s not as simple as that. We have to make people aware first, we can’t make any changes without that.”

Given her experience working at the breakneck speeds of the Web3 world, would she recommend the industry to other women? “It’s a huge opportunity. I would never have been in the roles I’ve been in in web two, it would have been a much, much slower process. It gave me the space to understand what I was really good at, in a really short time because people kept throwing opportunities at me because it was rare to have a woman who was a marketing leader in the space.” 

Dallara advises any women looking at this space to be, above all, curious. “Know that you can make this whatever you want to make it. There’s no rules. You can build whatever you want to build, you can create the role, whatever you want to create. And it’s up to you to determine how you do that. And when. 
Welcome to NEARCON ‘23: Step Into the Open Web
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 7, 2023
Hello NEARians!

Welcome to the 3rd annual NEARCON in the always lovely and scenic Lisbon, Portugal. The NEAR Community is out in force for NEARCON ‘23, with around 3,000 delegates here to explore the power and possibilities of an open web.

A number of exciting protocol and ecosystem announcements are planned over from November 7-10th. We’re thrilled to have you all here to get inspired by talks from renowned authors, economists, artists, politicians, developers, entrepreneurs, and many others helping to build an open web.

NEARCON ‘23 is the perfect opportunity to meet and network with a wide variety of projects, speakers, community members, builders, and multi-chain enthusiasts from across the globe. And if you’re here to build, then we look forward to seeing what you put together for the NEAR IRL Hackathon, for which $140K+ in prizes are up for grabs!

Finding the NEARCON 23 venues 
NEARCON ‘23 will unfold across three different venues. NEAR Foundation designed and optimized each space for talks, demonstrations, hackathons, and more. You can find the three NEARCON venues here:

NEARCON HQ
Convento Do Beato
Alameda do Beato 40, 1950-042
Lisboa, Portugal

Hacker HQ
Armazem 16
R. Pereira Henriques nº1, 1950-242
Lisboa, Portugal

Community HQ
Rua Pereira Henriques
31950-242
Lisboa, Portugal

NCON: What it is and how to use it
For NEARCON ‘23, NEAR Foundation partnered with Jutsu, Keypom, and Veriken to create a novel conference experience — the NCON token, an event experience built on the Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S). In many ways, NCON is the embodiment of the open web, where users seamlessly transact with each other on a peer-to-peer network.

With NCON, you can attend content sessions, interact with sponsors, pay for your lunch, and more. You can even complete NCON Bounties, for which you’ll be rewarded NCON that can be redeemed for swag, lunches, and other goodies during NEARCON ‘23.

More NCON details. 

Tracks for Developers, Entrepreneurs, Creatives, and Regulators
To make this year’s NEARCON even more iconic than last year, we’ve created a diverse set of tracks for attendees. There is something for every type of open web enthusiast. 

Developers — Devs should drop in on a number of hands-on workshops and coding sessions. These are the best sessions for getting first-hand looks at NEAR’s latest open web innovations.
Entrepreneurs — A track designed for the open web entrepreneur. Web3 industry leaders will be on-site to share the best insights, strategies, and advice on turning an idea into the next best open web startup. 
Creatives — Artists, musicians, marketers, and more are a major part of the NEAR community. The Creatives track is designed to deliver the latest insights into the creative process for NEARCON attendees. 
Regulators — Top legal and regulatory talent will help open web developers and founders get the latest information on best practices, legal frameworks, and future regulatory development. 
AI is NEAR: The Future of AI on the Open Web
We’re all excited about AI and blockchain, and this is reflected in a special track for NEARCON ’23 — “AI is NEAR”. NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, a pioneer in the world of AI, will be leading the charge. Check out the “AI is NEAR” track over at nearcon.org.

Get your badge, beat the lines, and register for the hackathon
November 7th is the perfect day to drop by to get your badge and register for the hackathon. Beat the lines and get settled in!

You can also drop by the Registration Party sponsored by Octopus Network, G20, and Glass at the Layer 1 Stage (Convento Do Beato). From 5-7pm, join the hackathon orientation and NDC’s Proof of Pizza at Hacker HQ from 5-7pm, then don your party hat for NEARWEEK’s evening party from 7-11pm! 

A look ahead to NEARCON Day 1 — November 8th
Doors open at 9:00am. 

Join us bright and early for breakfast before a number of welcome sessions from various NEARCON stages, and earn some NCON for being an early riser!

NEARCON Day 1 will feature a variety of talks and panels, from NEAR UX and DeFi, to decentralized storage, Web3 community building, and much more.

Check out the full Day 1 schedule now to plan for the day’s events!
NEAR and Galxe Team Up for SPACE ID Voyage Season 2
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 8, 2023
NEAR Foundation and Galxe —the  leading platform for Web3 community building — are joining forces to provide new and existing Web3 users with a seamless onboarding experience for SPACE ID’s renewed referral program, “Voyage Season 2 – Calling”. 

This new partnership is significant, as Galxe is the first major Web3 partner launching a component on NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The BOS is an OS on which developers can effortlessly build and distribute chain-agnostic, decentralized apps and experiences on the  Open Web.  

SPACE ID is a universal name service network with a one-stop identity platform to discover, register, trade, and manage Web3 domains. It also includes a Web3 Name SDK & API for developers across blockchains and provides a multi-chain name service for everyone to easily build and create a web3 identity. Established in the third quarter of 2022, SPACE ID quickly took the market by storm with its .bnb domain name service, as well as more recently with .arb name service. 

How the BOS will power the SPACE ID Voyage decentralized frontend
NEAR’s BOS will be powering the decentralized frontend for SPACE ID’s Voyage, a referral program where users invite others to register a .bnb or .arb address and earn special Voyage Boxes in return. Starting on June 7th, users will be able to participate in Space ID’s Voyage program through near.org and register .bnb names — enjoying a seamless, one-stop, decentralized experience powered by BOS. 

Before the BOS integration, participating in quests like Voyage could be a complicated process. Users had to navigate through multiple pages, going back and forth to sign-in, register a domain, check eligibility, and claim rewards separately. A tech stack for decentralized and user-friendly frontends, BOS enables a unified interface where users can do all of the above with a single sign-in — directly in-app — so that users never have to leave the page on which they started.

How SPACE ID uses BOS’s composable components
The BOS components for SPACE ID are created independently and composed inside another composite component. This, in and of itself, clearly demonstrates the true composability strengths of BOS. 

And thanks to BOS’s permissionless nature, developers are able to fork the components and embed them into their BOS components or websites. Users are then able to view the source code for each of the these components both on-chain and in-browser — improving transparency and security at every step of the user journey. 

Discover Galxe’s exciting SPACE ID Campaign today. Register a .bnb domain name and claim a Voyage Box today on near.org. 

Stay tuned for more exciting NEAR Foundation and Galxe campaigns to come — powered by BOS! 
NEARCON ‘23 Day Three: Governance and Multi-Chain in the Spotlight
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 10, 2023
As NEARCON ’23 drew to a close, the vibrant energy of innovation and unity in the open web was palpable. Attendees reflected on a journey filled with groundbreaking discussions and pivotal connections, marking the final day as a celebration of collective progress and shared visions for the future.

The conference’s last act spotlighted transformative dialogues and educational strides, with a keen focus on empowering the next wave of builders. Governance talks, innovative partnerships, and technical milestones underscored NEAR’s commitment to nurturing talent and fostering a future where the open web thrives.

Major EigenLayer and LayerZero announcements
Day Three was headlined by two major announcements that will impact the NEAR Protocol and ecosystem in a variety of ways moving forward.

NEAR and EigenLayer enable fast finality on Ethereum 

NEAR Foundation partners with Eigen Labs to develop a “fast finality layer” for Ethereum rollups, promising swift and economical transactions. This initiative, set for a 2024 testnet launch, aims to quicken cross-rollup communication and minimize costs, streamlining the developer experience and enhancing Web3 interoperability.

LayerZero integrates with NEAR for cross-chain messaging

A second big announcement was the integration with LayerZero Labs on NEAR’s EVM layer, Aurora, enabling NEAR to connect with over 40 blockchain networks. LayerZero’s endpoint paves the way for trustless cross-chain messaging, expanding NEAR’s interoperability and user experience. For further details, visit LayerZero’s documentation here. 

Day Three ecosystem news and announcements
EigenLayer and LayerZero were just the tip of the iceberg for the ecosystem on Day Three. Here’s a rundown of other key happenings.

​​Activelink boosted by NEAR grant

Activelink, enhancing sports and media engagement, has received a NEAR Foundation grant to facilitate on-chain transactions, fostering direct fan connections and monetization on the NEAR protocol.

Ample kicks off Horizon program

Ample, readying to disrupt media distribution, leverages the Horizon Programme to launch a unique platform for artists. It aims to democratize entertainment by tokenizing content, ensuring creators’ ownership, and optimizing monetization without requiring open web expertise. 

Encode: Kickstarting NEAR Innovations

Encode teams up with NEAR Horizon for an eight-week online accelerator, starting November 23rd including workshops, mentorship, and global networking opportunities. Open to unfunded hackathon and startup projects, it’s a launchpad to growth without full-time commitment. Check out the Encode accelerator website to learn more and fill out an application today.

QSTN: NFT Success and Testnet Launch

QSTN announced a full sell-out of their NFT collection on NEAR, gearing up for their public incentivized testnet on November 13th. QSTN is calling on the open community to engage and earn NEAR rewards for survey participation and feedback with Telegram integration plans.

World of Rogues brings mobile adventure to NEAR

World of Rogues is set to conquer mobile gaming, with Rogues Studio announcing a forthcoming release for iOS and Android. Emphasizing a seamless, frictionless blockchain gaming experience on NEAR, the studio focuses on easy onboarding for non-crypto gamers. 

Lava Network bolsters NEAR with modular APIs

The Lava Network is boosting the NEAR ecosystem through a partnership aimed at enhancing developer tools with modular APIs and incentivized public RPCs. By integrating NEAR support, Lava provides developers with a robust node network, ensuring speed and efficiency. 

Encore Network empowers NEAR with user-centric data

Encore, a leading data collection platform, announced a huge step in data control. NEAR users now control their data along with terms of sharing. The goal is to slash customer acquisition costs for projects and spur revenue, marking a new chapter in data-driven user empowerment.

Key sessions and panels
The final day of NEARCON ‘23 highlighted governance, along with a special session between NEAR co-founder and CEO Illia Polosukhin and Polygon co-founder Jordy Baylina.

NEAR Governance Forum: shaping decentralized democracy

At the NEAR Governance Forum, leaders like Blaze from Cheddar and Alejandro Betancourt of the Transparency Commission discussed challenges in the NDC, emphasizing the need for high standards and community-driven progress. Topics included efficient governance models, the balance between autonomy and collaboration, and advancing NEAR’s decentralized democracy.

Illia dives deeper into Polygon and ZK with Jordi Baylina

NEAR’s Illia Polosukhin, alongside Polygon co-founder Jordi Baylina, dove into the collaboration between the two ecosystems. The two focused on zero-knowledge proofs for enhancing cross-chain interactions and unifying blockchain security. They talked about streamlining Layer 1 and Layer 2 operations, promoting a cohesive and interoperable blockchain network, and more.

Envisioning the future of decentralized democracy 

During “What 2024 Looks Like for Decentralized Democracy” Blaze and Alejandro returned along with Yadira Blocker from the NEAR Foundation to break down cultural and operational shifts needed for effective governance, touching on the role of AI in streamlining decision-making processes. They also discussed the NDC’s past, present, and future.

The Littles bash at LX Factory closes out NEARCON ‘23
Day Three will culminate in a huge bash at LX Factory, sponsored by The Littles. Unwind and network against the backdrop of one of Lisbon’s most vibrant and hip nightlife districts. The closing party not only marks the end of an iconic NEARCON ‘23, but will be fertile ground for future collaborations and community bonding.

Not to mention a chance to win rewards and NFTs just by playing carnival games via The Littles Fun Pass app on NEAR. Win or lose, you’ll walk away with some cool blockchain-based swag.

As NEARCON ’23 wraps up, the collaborative spirit of the open web community is clear. The convergence of thought leaders, innovators, and enthusiasts in Lisbon made this year’s edition incredibly special. Thanks to every attendee, hacker, sponsor, and NEAR enthusiast for making NEARCON ‘23 so memorable, and see you at the LX Factory at 9 PM for the grand finale!
Octopus Network Seed Funding Round Complete
COMMUNITY
April 2, 2021
Octopus Network Announcement: Seed Funding Round Complete!
The Octopus Network Team recently announced the completion of a seed-funding round for building out the base level infrastructure of Octopus Network. The $3 million dollars fundraise includes capital from deep-crypto venture firms including: 

D1 Ventures
SevenX Ventures
Puzzle Ventures
PNYX Capital
Electric Capital
Ascensive Assets
Origin Capital
ZMT Capital
Bixin
OKEx Block Dream Fund
Spark Digital
ChainX
Stafi
NGC Ventures 
Prior to this seed round, Octopus had received a $1 million dollar strategic investment from the NEAR Foundation. In context this fundraise is a strong vote of confidence in both the future of appchains, as well as NEAR Protocol. 

The Early Days of Appchains on NEAR: Octopus in Context
An Appchain is a decentralized Web3.0 application in the form of an independent blockchain. Octopus Network provides appchains with flexible on-demand shared security, out-of-the-box cross-chain interoperability, and infrastructure services including blockchain explorers, API endpoint, indexers, etc. In short, Octopus Network allows for projects to quickly and efficiently customize and launch their own blockchain, without needing to source all of the features required to maintain that blockchain. 

By reducing the capital expenditure for publishing and launching an Appchain by two orders of magnitude – from millions of dollars to tens of thousands dollars – Octopus Network is preparing to unleash a new wave of innovation in Web3.0 applications. 

On Octopus Network the next generation of Web 3.0 applications can develop in a cost-effective, scalable, and secure manner. The $3 million dollar seed round fundraise for Octopus is the first step of an inevitable software revolution. To stay up to date with Octopus Network and the many different appchains preparing to deploy on Octopus, follow the team on Discord and Twitter! 

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. 


NEAR joins FlamingoDAO 🦩
COMMUNITY
October 30, 2020
A new future for digital property is beginning — one that promises to help reduce the distortions of the first Internet wave and ensure greater compensation for creators across the globe. This is done through non-fungible tokens (NFTs), which are set to transform culture and serve as an anchor for the first generation of digital property. 

 

NFTs are unique, non-interchangeable digital assets that live on a blockchain. Most blockchain enthusiasts were introduced to NFTs in 2017, when CryptoKitties became so popular it slowed down the entire Ethereum network. But NFTs in 2020 have grown into so much more than digital cats. Today, NFTs are music samples, digital paintings, memes, digital land, event tickets, etc. The list goes on. For the first time in history, digital creators have a way to properly monetize their assets and make a living.

 

The Flamingo DAO is a new initiative by The LAO that takes on the “hive mind” approach of decentralization to support the ever-growing NFT ecosystem. Flamingo is unique because it operates as a community-driven collective of members that will make decisions to support the NFT ecosystem. The LAO is behind the idea of Flamingo and already has experience supporting projects such as Aavegotchi and Shell Protocol.

 

The NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce that it has joined the Flamingo DAO as a formal participant. NiMA Asghari will be the representative on behalf of the NEAR Community Council. As a collective, Flamingo will invest in digital properties and push the boundaries of NFTs, DeFi, fractionalization, metaverses, and much more. It will support several use cases, such as:

 

Acquiring NFTs and fractionalizing them;
Commissioning work from NFT creators;
Investing in digital artists;
Creating digital museums and galleries;
Supporting investments in core NFT projects.
 

NEAR is perfectly positioned to support NFTs. Already, popular NFT marketplace Mintbase is building on NEAR so its users can easily create stores and sell their digital assets. Mintbase and NEAR also launched the Createbase guild, where anyone who wants to experiment with NFTs on NEAR can join and apply for funding. Together, NEAR and Mintbase support creative projects up to 5000 USD (primarily in NEAR tokens) per month.

The NEAR Foundation is excited to be a part of the Flamingo DAO. This is the first in a series of community-oriented investments in DAOs and collective projects for NEAR, showcasing NEAR’s commitment to growing the NFT space.
Off to the Races: ZEST Launches on the NEAR Mainnet
COMMUNITY
August 24, 2020
The NEAR collective is excited to announce the launch of the first gaming DApp on the NEAR mainnet: the new ZEST Play Platform from the digital entertainment startup Virtually Human Studio (VHS), the creator of the popular racehorse community ZED.

As the real world merges with the digital, full, and direct ownership of your digital assets becomes increasingly important. Blockchain technology makes that possible, and the industry has seen a proliferation of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as a result. These unique and non-interchangeable tokens come in the form of digital land, trading cards, kittens, art, and, in the case of ZED, racehorses.

Buy a digital racehorse in ZED’s marketplace
ZED allows you to buy and sell beautifully designed, poly-art horses. But there’s a lot more to it. You can race your horses and earn a profit while doing so, too. Races on ZED are open 24/7 and thousands of people have already bought and raced their horse on ZED. But, as VHS was building out features for ZED, they bumped into a problem that would come to frustrate a growing number of users. 

ZED runs on Ethereum. Participating in a horse race only costs a few dollars of Ether, but Ethereum’s gas fees would sometimes spike up to hundreds of dollars. On top of that, transactions sometimes wouldn’t go through, costing people a gas fee without returning the desired result. Given the rising popularity of DeFi and Ethereum’s clogged network, this became an increasingly pressing problem for VHS.

VHS found a solution in NEAR. Along with its dynamically sharded blockchain design, NEAR has a predictable gas price that is significantly lower than Ethereum’s. Additionally, similar to how AWS and other cloud service providers work, NEAR allows developers to cover gas costs for its users, making the onboarding experience for new blockchain users significantly easier.

This falls in line with the philosophy behind the ZEST Play Platform. ZEST is an #extremelysexytoken that users can earn for free to play ZED without having to invest money. You don’t have to own or learn about NFTs to get in on the fun. It’s a smooth, easy onboarding experience. 

It seems to be working too, as people have already reserved well over a million ZEST. Visit the ZEST Play Platform to earn free ZEST tokens. Over time, you’ll be able to redeem prizes with your tokens, including ZED NFTs that hold actual dollar value. 

Peter DePaulo, Head of Developer Experience at NEAR says of the project, “The team at VHS moves faster than even the most thoroughbred racehorse, and we are excited for what else we can create with them. We are aligned with the idea that the development of good products should be user-first and market-driven. In essence, build what people actually want and use underpinning technology like NEAR to eliminate technical complexity. We are passionate about supporting creators like VHS with the tools to move at lighting speed and deliver experiences that exceed people’s expectations. That is what we do here at NEAR, and it’s what we plan to continue doing.”

About NEAR
NEAR Protocol makes building and deploying decentralized apps (and exchanging NFTs) easier, faster, and cheaper than any other blockchain.

Native usability is NEAR’s primary concern. Features such as its contract-based account model and NEAR Drops make NEAR significantly more usable for developers and end users. Additionally, NEAR has focused on bringing performance for applications. The dynamic sharding approach, called Nightshade, works on top of proof-of-stake BFT consensus (called Doomslug) and allows network throughput to scale as demand grows. It targets 1-second blocks so developers can build performant applications.

 Find out more about NEAR Protocol on our website, follow us on Twitter, or join our community on Discord.

About VHS
Virtually Human is a studio exploring the boundaries of entertainment. They experiment with emerging technologies in gaming, sports, and digital collectibles, and are the creators of ZED and now the ZEST Play Platform. Follow ZED on Twitter or join their community on Discord or Telegram.
NEAR at ETHCC: Horizon Pitch Contest, BOS Workshops, and More
COMMUNITY
July 16, 2023
As Day One at NEAR @ ETHCC concludes, there’s palpable growing excitement for what’s in store for tomorrow. Held at the beautiful Museum National D’Histoire Naturelle in Paris, the first day of workshops and sessions proved to be an exceptional success for Ethereum and BOS builders. 

Day Two is gearing up to take the experience to a whole new level, with a primary focus on founders and their ventures.

Morning and Early Afternoon Sessions: Fostering Innovation
Day Two will kick off with a casual networking opportunity over café au laits and pastries. It’ll be a great way to get warmed up and connect builders, innovators, and visionaries within the NEAR ecosystem.

The first main event of the day will be a special workshop held  by Matt Stephenson , Head of Cryptoeconomics at Pantera Capita, along with Pantera Principal, Ryan Barney. His insights on the opportunities and challenges within blockchain economics will deepen participants’ understanding of the critical economic principles underpinning blockchain ecosystems.

As the morning sessions conclude, the afternoon will kick off by delving into the world of interoperability, onboarding, and value generation with Vik Pandey from NEAR Foundation. Vik has been actively involved in the development of the BOS, focusing on interoperability, open-source technologies, and blockchain success efforts. 

During his session, “Interoperability, Onboarding, and Value Generation with the BOS,” Vik will share insights from his work, highlighting the ways in which the BOS fosters innovation and impact in the Open Web.

Late Afternoon Highlights: Regulatory Discussions and Horizon Workshop
Next on the agenda is a panel of experts moderated by Mya Shofany, regulatory lead at NEAR Foundation. The discussion will delve into regulatory considerations in blockchain, and tackle some of the most critical issues facing Web3  founders in the current regulatory landscape.

The panel will be followed by one of the day’s most anticipated events — the Horizon afternoon. This session will be a deep dive into the cutting-edge ideas poised to redefine the blockchain world, spearheaded by NEAR’s new Web3 accelerator arm.

As Day Two winds down, participants can enjoy relaxed networking during the Horizon Happy Hour. Here, NEAR and Ethereum enthusiasts can reflect on the day’s learnings, forge new connections, and unwind over drinks and appetizers.

If you would like to browse the official schedule, head to near.org.ethcc 

Throughout the two days of NEAR @ ETHCC, participants are not just learning about the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), they’re experiencing it firsthand. Day Two promises a packed schedule of learning, building, and networking opportunities.

For those who couldn’t join us on Day One, you can catch up on the sessions uploaded on the NEAR Protocol YouTube channel. Prepare for Day Two by soaking up the insights shared by our experts.

Stay connected with us for more updates and insights from NEAR @ ETHCC as we continue to explore the limitless possibilities of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS).


NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for June
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 3, 2023
As June comes to a close, summer in the NEAR ecosystem is heating up with a wave of new announcements, events, media appearances, and more. Not to mention a few notable celebrities bringing some star power into NEAR’s orbit. Here’s a rundown of all the newsworthy NEAR happenings over the past month.

Sammy Hagar and Guy Fieri jump into NFTs on NEAR
In the US, Grammy-winning musician Sammy Hagar and celebrity chef Guy Fieri joined the NEAR ecosystem, teaming up with NEAR on-ramp Trident3 to launch an NFT loyalty program. The Santo Spirits Club loyalty program, as reported by Coindesk and Decrypt, will enable tequila fans to earn on-chain tiered perks and an opportunity to win a virtual tasting with the duo.

Mirae Asset, MARBLEX, and Vortex boost South Korea
 Over in Asia, NEAR Foundation continued to make inroads in South Korea. Mirae Asset, a subsidiary of Asia’s largest financial group, announced a partnership to research Web3’s role in global business. Per  Bloomberg, Mirae Asset will collaborate with NEAR Foundation to strengthen the Web2/3 business network and identify opportunities for real-world blockchain value creation.

Meanwhile, Blockchain Reporter broke that Marblex – a Korean blockchain infrastructure provider for high-quality gaming – will integrate NEAR protocol with Marblex’s gaming universe, enhancing user convenience and Web3 adoption. NEAR will integrate with MARBLEX’s WARP Bridge, taking advantage of NEAR’s high scalability and speed to improve the gaming experience in Web3. The partnership will also enable joint marketing initiatives and events, boosting awareness of the global blockchain gaming market. 

Then there’s Vortex Gaming, a Web3 subsidiary of Inven, the largest game media community in Korea. Coverage by European Gaming reported that Vortex will leverage NEAR protocol to integrate a  gaming community encompassing Web2 and Web3 by building innovative infrastructure for gaming developers. The NEAR Foundation and Inven will also collaborate on marketing and business development, adding to NEAR’s exciting Web3 gaming ecosystem.  

Skoda launches metaverse for auto fans in India
Czech Automobile Manufacturer Skoda entered the Metaverse in the world’s most populous country, giving users an opportunity to explore, collect and own digital art pieces on NEAR. The platform, as reported by Cointelegraph and Entrepreneur India, will enable NFT owners to access exclusive perks and rewards, while allowing owners to trade digital artwork in the future. 

SailGP christens The Dock for decentralized fandom
In more partnership news, the Global racing league SailGP and Oracle announced the launch of “The Dock”, a decentralized fan engagement platform powered by Oracle and NEAR’s ongoing partnership to bridge the worlds of Web2 and Web3. As reported by SailWeb, The Dock will revolutionize how fans follow SailGP, increasing engagement through exclusive content and enabling fans to earn points, redeemable for exciting rewards including VIP access to SailGP events and more.

Alibaba Cloud and Women in Web3 headline Collision
The NEAR ecosystem took over Toronto this month, showcasing the best of BOS at Collision 2023,  one of the world’s biggest tech conferences.  During the event, the NEAR Foundation announced a groundbreaking partnership with Alibaba, enabling developers across Asia to launch new NEAR validators with Alibaba Cloud’s infrastructure as a service. 

The partnership was covered in myriad outlets such as Coindesk, Journal du Coin, and BTC Echo. Partnering with Alibaba means the NEAR ecosystem will have access to Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) and enable users to interact with NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System while using Alibaba Cloud’s infrastructure. 

The NEAR Foundation also released the Women in Web3 Changemakers List 2023, celebrating the achievements of extraordinary women throughout the Web3 ecosystem. As reported by Tech Funding News, the ten women were selected by the public and hail from all corners of the globe, following hundreds of nominations from the Web3 community. 

Leadership viewpoints on media and social fairness
Illia Polosukhin, Founder of NEAR and CEO of Pagoda, took the time to write a thought leadership piece in Blockworks about crypto’s potential to transform how we interact with the media. Illia sets out the emerging problem with the status quo: bad actors are beginning to utilize generative AI to dramatically scale up misinformation campaigns. 

However, Illia explains that blockchain-based “sign-and-trace” systems can enable the public to reliably source and validate real news stories, with a legitimate trail of sources available online.

CEO of NEAR Foundation Marieke Flament also penned an article for London’s leading daily business paper CityAM about using Web3 to build a fair and inclusive digital world. “Too often technology has only benefited the few: those who have money, those who have power, or those of a certain gender, ethnicity, or skin color.

But this doesn’t need to be the case,” she explained. “Technology can and should be in the service of all people. But to achieve this, we will need a change in perspective, something that Web3 can help us achieve.”

Marieke also talked about blockchain, Web3, and BOS on a podcast hosted by the editor Journal du Coin – France’s leading crypto media outlet, and for a video interview with Fintech Finance at the Paris Fintech Forum. 

That’s all for this month. If we missed anything or want to share anything for next month’s roundup, get in touch!
NEAR Teams With Google Cloud to Accelerate Web3 Startups
DEVELOPERS
October 4, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership between Google Cloud and NEAR Protocol. Going forward, Google Cloud will provide technical support for NEAR grant recipients. Open and developer-friendly, Google Cloud will support devs as they build and scale their Web3 projects and dApps.

If you’re developing on NEAR, this is great news—the partnership will supercharge blockchain innovations. Developers will even more easily create without limits as they build dApps and help onboard the masses into Web3. 

“We are thrilled to be collaborating with those who pioneered the Internet as we know it,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This partnership marks a new chapter for us as we continue to offer the best support possible for the next generation of visionaries choosing to build on the NEAR protocol.”

Powering NEAR developers with Google Cloud
In the last year, NEAR has grown exponentially thanks to its super-fast, incredibly secure, and infinitely scalable protocol. There are now over 20 million accounts, 200 million transactions to date, and 300,000 to 400,000 transactions per day on the NEAR network. Building upon the momentum of NEARCON 2022, which showcased the NEAR ecosystem’s vibrancy, 800 projects are now building on the protocol. 

How will the hundreds of projects currently building on NEAR benefit from the Google Cloud partnership? 

Google Cloud provides the infrastructure for NEAR’s Remote Procedure Call (RPC) node provider to Pagoda, NEAR’s Web3 startup platform. This allows developers to deploy code quickly, securely, and seamlessly. Pagoda helps developers easily and rapidly launch dApps on NEAR through a library of pre-audited templates and auto-generated contract user interfaces.

 “We will be supporting NEAR and giving Web3 developers the most secure, reliable, and sustainable cloud infrastructure on which they can build and scale,” Carlos Arena, Director of Digital Assets at Google Cloud. “We continue to support tomorrow’s leaders in creating new products and services on blockchain-based platforms.”

For more information on how Google Cloud is working to support Web3 innovation, check out Google Cloud’s Digital Assets blog. 
How NEAR Went Carbon Neutral
COMMUNITY
November 1, 2021
Climate change, like the pandemic, is a global crisis that increasingly demands the world’s attention. A global imperative, it will require much collective work across many industries and markets to help mitigate its effects. Which makes the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) a critical one.

Silicon Valley isn’t usually singled out for its carbon footprint, but the reality is that each company plays a role in a much larger carbon consumption whole. If you’re a web-based startup, then you’re on the electrical grid — that means your platform is almost certainly powered by fossil fuels.

From inception, NEAR has focused on a computational alternative to PoW. In this system, known as Proof-of-Stake (PoS), there are no miners. Instead, validators stake a given token amount to allow themselves to take part. PoS blockchains incentivise communities to own and control the network. Only then can they validate blocks and collect a block award.

PoS is integral to NEAR’s core values of simplicity, scalability, and security, which will help redefine business, creativity, and community. Since we launched amidst growing concern over climate change, we’ve been actively applying these values to help others reimagine the world, and do it in a carbon neutral way.

Functionally, NEAR’s PoS , what we call Nightshade, allows the platform to realize its ambition of being simple, scalable, and secure. But on a social and ecological level, sharding allows NEAR to deliver on its carbon neutral commitment.

Let’s dive into NEAR Protocol’s sharding system, and explore a few other initiatives NEAR has been taking on its journey to carbon neutrality.

Why Proof-of-Stake enables the Carbon Neutral shift
Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchain platforms have in recent years attracted much attention for the electrical power needed to run their mining computations. Indeed, PoW lies at the heart of crypto’s energy debate.

In PoW, a massive amount of mining gear is put to work on the computations needed to produce blocks. Miners — many of them large operations with a bunch of gear — compete for block rewards. Over time, PoW mining becomes more difficult, requiring more gear to perform more time-consuming computations, all of it leading to escalating amounts of energy consumption.

With Proof-of-Stake, a network architecture used by NEAR and some other platforms, we have a novel and exciting way of making crypto carbon neutral. As a computational alternative to PoW, there is no mining or arms race. Instead of miners, PoS uses validators that have to commit a given amount of tokens before they can be eligible to take part in the network.

If we’re talking energy efficiency, PoS-based blockchains are orders of magnitude better than PoW platforms, like Bitcoin. Ethereum is currently planning on transitioning to PoS in the next few years.

NEAR’s PoS ecosystem is already up and running, giving the community the opportunity to build on a climate neutral blockchain, today.

Nightshade: A key to Carbon Neutrality
A year after our mainnet launch, NEAR has already attracted a robust community of developers and users. While our throughput (network capacity) makes for a fast, scalable, and budget-friendly alternative to Bitcoin and Ethereum, the NEAR platform’s capacity won’t stop with the mainnet.

As promised, NEAR’s Nightshade will expand throughput via sharding, a scaling technology that divides computation across “shards” running in parallel. Nightshade allows each transaction to be far more energy efficient than PoW platforms, since the sharding approach allows for scaling without a corresponding uptick in energy consumption.

How, you might ask? With NEAR’s Nightshade, each transaction is processed on a shard instead of by every node in the network. Alongside PoS, this significantly reduces blockchain energy consumption, thus reducing the blockchain’s carbon footprint.

NEAR’s other Carbon Neutral initiatives
The NEAR platform’s climate change efforts go beyond PoS and sharding. As part of making the ecosystem climate neutral, NEAR asked South Pole, a leading Zurich-based project developer and global climate solutions provider, to audit NEAR’s carbon footprint. We also asked for guidance on how to reduce our carbon footprint where possible, and if not, provide ways for NEAR to offset its remaining carbon.

South Pole’s audit included NEAR Foundation’s carbon footprint, the Core Collective (all employees and contractors working on the protocol), and all validators. The firm found that NEAR Protocol generates 174 tons of CO2 annually, making it 200,000 times more energy efficient than Bitcoin. Much of this is due to NEAR’s application of PoS technology instead of PoW. As noted above, growth in blockchain throughput means that our carbon footprint will only grow marginally in the coming years.

What this means for the future of blockchain
NEAR’s PoS and Nightshade architecture is the future of blockchain. But many other exciting advances and possibilities are on the horizon, especially as expanded throughput leads to more adoption and app development. Just recently, Open Forest Protocol, a forestation tracking solution built on NEAR.

We foresee, in the near future (no pun intended), many more dApp developers launching projects on the NEAR ecosystem that deal directly with environmental sustainability.

The blockchain industry is already seeing projects focused on tracking the provenance of recycling initiatives. We will also see more blockchain-based validations of supply chains, giving local producers of goods fairer, more sustainable profits for their families and communities.

DeFi will also play a major role in climate action. Imagine a world where individuals from across the globe can help finance climate change projects in wonderfully decentralized ways, bypassing both bureaucratic red tape and any resistance or hesitance from centralized financial institutions and corporations.

We want the fast-growing NEAR community to reimagine the world.

Collectively, the community has the power and means to affect local and global change through blockchain innovation.
The Road to MainNet and Beyond
COMMUNITY
April 21, 2020
Update 2: See the MainNet Genesis post for an update on network status as of August 2020.

Update: MainNet launched as planned on April 22. Learn more about how this works and what it means for each stakeholder in Announcing MainNet Genesis

Introduction to NEAR Protocol’s MainNet
Building a blockchain is hard enough. Building a complex blockchain that can scale to billions of users and provides great developer experience is extremely hard.

The core difference between building a regular product and blockchain is that you can’t launch something and iterate with your users quickly fixing issues in near-real time. This is not how protocols are designed and built. Once a protocol is live, changing it requires an enormous amount of coordination. In the case of a blockchain protocol, especially one built with Proof of Stake, the protocol will begin securing hundreds of millions or billions of dollars on day one. You can’t launch a half-completed project and quickly iterate in this case.

Our team comes from a background of building products and quickly iterating on them. From the start, we took a product approach, trying to learn as much as possible from the market. Instead of following the whitepaper we initially wrote or relying on our preconceptions of what developers need, we built an MVP with developer tooling, a test wallet, and a not-a-blockchain smart contract backend. We called it DevNet and got initial developers at hackathons and workshops to try building applications on it.

This gave us a lot of feedback about how smart contracts work in multi-sharded setups and the tools needed to make blockchain accessible to a wider group of developers. It also gave us time to realize that our original approach to sharding wouldn’t cut it. This led to rethinking the approach and, ultimately, the Nightshade sharding design paper.

As we continued to iterate on the design of the blockchain, we ran a publicly accessible TestNet that any developer could build and deploy contracts to. The currently running TestNet is actually a continuation of one we started in April 2019. Through many hard forks, the network has kept the state for over a year.

From the beginning, all of our development has been public on GitHub. It went from a single repo for NEAR’s reference client (nearcore) to almost 100 public repos across three organizations (nearprotocol, near, near-examples) spanning a set of tools and products to support needs of developers and initial users of NEAR Protocol.

Requirements for a fully operational network
There are a lot of pieces that must work together to make a fully decentralized network like NEAR operational:

The NEAR code must be bulletproof and successfully running on a large number of validators’ computers around the globe, which together are providing their compute resources and securing the network.
Developers should be building and launching products on NEAR.
NEAR should be integrated with various partners who provide additional value to the ecosystem.
Tokens should be in the hands of the involved parties, who are going to use them for staking, development and using the applications. These token holders are our initial community who will be early adopters of the applications and also the loudest voices of our support.
Active ambassadors around the world should be spreading our mission and message and educating people both about blockchain and what can be done on NEAR.
The general market should have both the knowledge and the desire to learn more about the project and get involved.
MainNet Roadmap and Timeline
We are going to be releasing NEAR’s MainNet in stages. Each stage is identified by the restrictions that it has and each stage has different goals. It’s important as we open up the network more and more to test at every stage and provide flexibility to address issues early in the process.

[Edit: There is no longer a 2-week wait after the unlock vote]

The following sections detail each of these stages.

MainNet POA
Expected time to launch: April 22 – 27, 2020

ZenHub link to track this release

This is NEAR Protocol running in Proof of Authority mode, with the NEAR Foundation operating the initial set of nodes. Most importantly, the state of the network will be maintained going forward.

The goal for this stage is to distribute initial tokens to contributors and get the initial set of validators onboard. At this point, only the NEAR Foundation is able to transfer tokens and will be using lock-up account contracts when allocating tokens to first users. In other words, most token transfers are restricted.

Developers who are ready to deploy their applications to MainNet can apply to the NEAR Foundation and get an account to deploy their application.

In parallel, we are still running our TestNet with various validators to test out all the corner cases of validation. As soon as both NEAR Collective and validators are satisfied with the stability of running on TestNet, we will transition into the next phase.

MainNet (Restricted)
Expected time to launch: June – August, 2020

ZenHub link to track this release

Given that transfers are disabled for most accounts and the lockup contracts doesn’t allow to stake directly (only via delegation), the initial validator set is determined by a whitelist of validators to delegate to. As soon as the initial set of validators is determined from TestNet and shows their MainNet infra running, NEAR Foundation will stop staking and pass the staking to these validators.

There are a few goals for this phase:

Test that MainNet is operating correctly with a decentralized set of validators and continue code and security reviews
Initial applications which can work without transfer restrictions can start launching
NEAR Foundation will be continuously distributing tokens to the value-add community.
This stage is completed when the community decides that the network is secure and decentralized enough. A contract to vote on lifting transfers will be used by the community to identify such time. Validators will be casting votes, as they have locked capital in the network and can not “double vote”. Delegators can cast their votes via staking contract as proxy, overruling validators vote proportionally to their stake.

When ⅔ of total stake and at least 35% of total supply vote for a specific block number, it’s considered decided by the community and transfers will unlock in two weeks [Edit: there will no longer be a fixed delay] from that block number.

MainNet (Community Governed)
Expected time: decided by the community

At this point, the network is fully operational and doesn’t have any restrictions. Validators and delegators are now responsible for continued operation of the network and deciding to upgrade.

In parallel with the general community gaining confidence and voting to unlock transfers, NEAR Collective will continue to work on ensuring the quality and security of the network, and has released a target to finalize a number of post-flight tasks. ZenHub link to track progress is here.

Comparison between stages
Here are more specific dimensions to compare different release stages of the MainNet:


 

Post MainNet
One of the critical parts for any project is to continue moving forward and evolve over time. To make sure NEAR does this, we follow a development process that establishes a fixed launch timeline. We have setup three networks to provide us with a testbed:

devnet – nightly released network from the master branch that provides a place to stress test and do initial testing of code added that day, additionally run nightly test suit.
betanet – released weekly, accepts external validators and application developers who want to live on the bleeding edge.
testnet – released every 4 weeks and is a stable version, this is the same TestNet we have been running since April 2019, and is the best place to do acceptance testing for one’s applications.
Validators on MainNet will be voting as a community on accepting new stable releases. We expect that the timing on this would usually depend on the magnitude of changes that came in that release.

We are not going to launch MainNet with all the features we have in mind. Many things end up being outside of our “MainNet v1” scope to make sure we can deliver quality products. Some of these include:

Upgradability without hard forking (link to discussion and epic tracking issues related)
Unbiasable randomness (design, implementation)
Safes: safe locks for operations with assets across contracts and shards (design)
Enable challenges to switch to selfish majority assumption (epic)
Parallelize Runtime (epic)
Rework Storage (epic)
Dynamic resharding (epic)
And more features and improvements coming from community and developers
After the “Community Governed” phase is done, we are going to set up the next release of MainNet v2 with a set of tasks to complete in subsequent 4 weeks.

FAQ
How do existing token holders claim NEAR tokens on MainNet?
If you are an existing token holder, you will receive an email with detailed instructions which information must be provided to NEAR Foundation for your account to be created on MainNet with your funds.

It’s highly recommended that token holders claim their tokens before the MainNet Restricted stage to be able to participate in validation and subsequent voting to unlock transfers.

How many shards will NEAR Protocol have? How should validators handle it?
At launch, we are going to configure the network to 1 shard since it is unnecessary to have more. As network usage grows, a hard fork into 2 or more shards can happen based on a community vote. At that point, the number of shards are just a parameter in the genesis configuration. 

We have a design for Dynamic resharding that will be implemented in upcoming releases, allowing the system to change the number of shards dynamically based on load.

The important note for validators is that, as the number of shards increases, validators who have multiple seats due to large stake will start validating multiple shards in parallel (refer to the economics paper for more details regarding how validator selection works). This means they will need to run more powerful hardware or split their stake between multiple computers.

In parallel with MainNet “Restricted” launch, we are going to be running the first BetaNet and then TestNet with at least 8 shards to test performance and tooling. Validators should join these networks to establish that their setup scales properly before MainNet scales to that.

What kind of slashing does NEAR Protocol have at launch?
Slashing is disabled at launch. At launch, the network will operate with an honest supermajority assumption. Going forward, slashing conditions for violating BFT finality and producing invalid state transitions will be added via normal governance procedures.

Why should I delegate during the MainNet “Restricted” Phase if there is no inflation?
The requirement for unlocking transfers is to gain momentum around community governance. We expect a large percentage of distributed supply to participate in the voting to showcase this. If you are not delegating, you might be delaying when the community can make this decision. Validators will cast votes for their delegates (unless delegates want to override it), thus making it easy on delegates who might have limited ability to control their holdings in the short term (due to limited custody support for example).

Since there is no slashing initially, delegation is risk-free and ensures that as soon as inflation starts, people will begin receiving their rewards. If you are planning to delegate, you still should be careful to choose which validators to delegate to. Validators who don’t maintain an online presence will be kicked out and won’t receive their rewards.

How do I become an initial validator at MainNet “Restricted” Phase? How do I accept delegations?
The main way to become a validator at MainNet “Restricted” phase is to participate in the upcoming revision of Stake Wars and be an active validator of TestNet. There will be tutorials published on Github and already now you can run your nodes on Betanet. Specifically, Stake Wars 2.0 will be around delegations, so as a participant in Stake Wars you will be able to learn how to set up delegation smart contracts and invite people to delegate to you. 

From our side, we will also connect all active participants of Stake Wars with existing token holders who are interested in delegating, making sure that participants have enough stake to take a seat in MainNet “Restricted” phase.

Alternatively, if you are an existing NEAR token holder you will be able to stake your own funds freely.

As a developer, how do I create accounts for my users?
During POA and Restricted stages, only the NEAR Foundation is able to freely create accounts after doing KYC. NEAR Foundation, as part of its distribution activities, will provide a way for people to receive some initial amount of NEAR which they can use to provision their account and deploy applications.

If an application needs users to have an on-chain account, it can route them to the NEAR Foundation’s work drop landing page (which will be created).

Alternatively, applications can use Access Keys to their own application as a proxy identity and provide a way to “export” the user’s identity later to a full account. We are going to write a separate blog post to describe how this can be done.


The Rainbow Bridge Is Live
COMMUNITY
April 6, 2021
Today the NEAR team is excited to announce that the Rainbow Bridge is live and ERC-20 tokens can now bridge to the NEAR blockchain and back to Ethereum.

In today’s blockchain landscape, many protocols and applications are increasingly going multi-chain. This allows developers and users to take advantage of the assets, composability, and community of Ethereum, as well as the higher throughput, lower fees, and shorter confirmation times of next-gen chains like NEAR Protocol.

Using the Rainbow Bridge today, developers can utilize Ethereum assets on NEAR, and NEAR assets on Ethereum. Soon, they will be able to access any application state from either chain, and eventually, any chain. Users bridging fungible tokens to NEAR can take advantage of NEAR’s one-to-two second transaction times, low transaction fees usually under one cent, and comparably low bridge transfer fees.

Innovation across the decentralized finance (DeFi) and non-fungible token (NFT) spaces has increased demand on the Ethereum network and escalated transaction fees to record-high levels. The Rainbow Bridge allows users to seamlessly migrate assets to NEAR’s developer-friendly and low-cost platform, circumventing high gas fees without compromising on speed.

Current Ethereum users without a NEAR account can easily onboard to NEAR using the NEAR Faucet for Ethereum users, hosted by Paras, and MetaMask. Simply by logging into MetaMask and proving that their account has a balance higher than 0.05 ETH, anyone can claim a NEAR account and start using the Rainbow Bridge right away.

The industry’s biggest tokens are now on NEAR
The first phase of the Rainbow Bridge opens the gates for assets to flow freely between NEAR and Ethereum blockchains while enabling users to bridge any ERC-20 token now. The following popular tokens with common ERC-20 functionality will now be able to interoperate with NEAR, including but not limited to:

Stablecoins like USDT (Tether), DAI, and TUSD
Wrapped assets like WBTC and WETH
DEX tokens like UNI and 1INCH
Lending tokens like AAVE and COMP
Service company tokens like HT (Huobi) and CRO (Crypto.com)
Users can send these ERC-20 assets directly from MetaMask or other Web3 wallets to NEAR wallets and apps, and vice versa.

Check out the dashboard with bridged assets in almost real time powered by Dune Analytics.


 

Inside the Rainbow Bridge
The Rainbow Bridge is a trustless, permissionless, and generic protocol for connecting blockchains. The bridge protocol removes the need to trust anyone except the security of the connected chains. Anyone can deploy a new bridge, use an existing bridge, or join the maintenance of an existing bridge without getting approval from anyone else.

The Rainbow Bridge is also generic in that it allows any information that is cryptographically provable on NEAR to be usable in Ethereum contracts and vice versa – including the ability to read the state and schedule calls with callbacks on the other chain. This means, for example, that a user can vote with their ETH balance in a NEAR DAO without sending a transaction on Ethereum.

The nature of the Rainbow Bridge remains fully decentralized and adaptable to any future protocol changes on either side. For more details about the architecture of the Rainbow Bridge, read the technical deep dive here.

How the Rainbow Bridge Works
As with the rest of the development experience on the NEAR platform, the bridge is built to be accessible and easy for all users, thanks to an intuitive design and the ETH Faucet for onboarding directly from MetaMask. (See the demo video to watch the Rainbow Bridge in action.) The cost and speed of using the Rainbow Bridge is mostly dependent on the current costs and speed of using the Ethereum network itself.

Once on NEAR, transactions will confirm in 1-2 seconds and cost under one cent in most cases. Since the Bridge requires transactions on Ethereum for NEAR <> Ethereum, the following costs are expected. Sending assets from Ethereum to NEAR takes about six minutes (20 blocks) and for ERC-20 costs about $10 on average. Sending assets from NEAR back to Ethereum currently takes a maximum of sixteen hours (due to Ethereum finality times) and costs around $60 (due to ETH gas costs and at current ETH price). These costs and speeds will improve in the near future.

The Rainbow Bridge launch marks an important first step in NEAR’s interoperability roadmap. Because the Rainbow Bridge is a generic protocol for communication between smart contract chains, it can be tuned to work with other chains and open up further combination possibilities. Since NEAR offers faster and cheaper transactions, it may be favorable for users of other chains to interact with Ethereum assets on NEAR, rather than bridging directly to Ethereum.

The next major step in NEAR’s interoperability roadmap will be the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), which will launch in Q2 of 2021. EVM support will provide a fully compatible environment for developers to launch existing Ethereum code on NEAR.

Try the Rainbow Bridge Today
Users who bridge to NEAR can use Pulse, a stablecoin-denominated prediction markets platform powered by Flux Protocol; Paras, an NFT trading platform for digital cards; and Ref.Finance, an experimental community-built AMM that allows for swaps between any bridged tokens.

The Rainbow Bridge is available to everyone and does not require special permission to deploy, maintain, or use. To start transferring ERC-20 tokens and experience the high-speed, low-cost advantages of NEAR now…


—

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR docs to get started. Join the NEAR community via our Discord or Telegram channels and don’t forget to follow us on Twitter. 

All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.

Disclaimer: This article is provided for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be used as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.
NEAR’s June Town Hall Highlights: Live from Consensus
COMMUNITY
June 22, 2022
June has been a groundbreaking month for the NEAR ecosystem, with major announcements and platform enhancements coming at breakneck speed. NEAR’s June Town Hall encapsulated much of that excitement. It was also the first-ever live Town Hall from Coindesk’s Consensus conference in Austin, Texas.

NEAR’s June Town Hall was one for special guests and appearances. NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin gave a special State of NEAR address, while the foundation introduced a new NEAR CMO. And superstar actress Mila Kunis also joined to discuss the Armored Kingdom fantasy metaverse being built on NEAR. 

Here’s everything you need to know about NEAR’s live June Town Hall from Consensus, Austin.

The State of NEAR address
Things kicked off with NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, who shared thoughts on ecosystem progress and where things are likely headed. He noted some exciting milestones, including that NEAR is currently the second fastest-growing Web3 developer ecosystem in the world. 

“Over the past 12 months, the protocol had 19 upgrades on the network without skipping a beat,” Polosukhin continued. “The focus of the team has been on stability and performance, making sure that we’re continuously running under any circumstances.”

He went on to share some positive news in the area of developer experience. Thechunk-only producers feature is now complete, and major WASM performance improvements make a JavaScript virtual machine (VM) possible. Illia also confirmed the impending rollout of a JavaScript Software Development Kit (SDK). This feature will make it possible for any JavaScript developer to ship code directly into NEAR.

“With the improvements over the past year, we’ve been able to achieve fully compatible JavaScript running on NEAR with smart contracts,” Polosukhin explained. “This means any JavaScript or web developer can now come in and build on NEAR. This is really exciting because we’ll see lots of experimentation happening.”

Marieke Flament, NEAR Foundation CEO, bookended the State of NEAR address with a deep dive into recent ecosystem successes. Flament noted that in June alone, both the NEAR Balkans Regional Hub NEAR Hacker House launched.

Watch Illia’s and Marieke’s talk here.

NEAR introduces a new Chief Marketing Officer
Next up, NEAR’s new CMO Jack Collier introduced himself to the community. He then provided an overview of some significant announcements coming out of Consensus.

“Over the last four weeks since I joined NEAR, I’ve spent most of my time meeting and listening to people within the ecosystem and beyond, including many people here at Consensus,” Collier said. “What’s really struck me is just how passionate, vibrant and diverse our ecosystem is. I’m hugely excited to be joining the NEAR Foundation and be a part of taking Web3 mainstream.”

Collier then moved on to the three major announcements coming out of Consensus. First, he unveiled Armored Kingdom, a new major entertainment franchise built on NEAR. This immersive science fiction-fantasy world encompasses trading card games, animation, comic books, and film. Armored Kingdom founders include acclaimed artists and producers from the US and India, as well as renowned Hollywood actress Mila Kunis.

Jack alsoannounced that SWEAT recently broke the 10 million wallets created mark—a sign that the movement economy is in full swing on NEAR. 

“It’s a huge milestone in bringing Web3 to the masses and reinventing how people can generate value for themselves in a move-to-earn economy,” Collier said.

Finally, Collier announced that the privacy-first browser Brave will be leveraging Aurora to launch its own Brave wallet that will bridge the Ethereum and NEAR communities. This integration will mean that Brave users can buy, sell, and store Aurora tokens directly in their Brave wallet.

“With the new wallet, there will be a host of Web3 functionality supported such as NFTs and swaps,” noted Collier. “All of which will be under the protection of a privacy-preserving, in-browser wallet.” 

See Jack’s full talk here.

NEARCon and Other Upcoming Events
Live events in the NEAR ecosystem will continue to ramp up after Consensus. Yadira Blocker, Experiential Marketing and Events Lead at the foundation, joined the Town Hall highlight upcoming events. This includes an even bigger and better NEARCon in Lisbon as well as NEAR’s presence at EthCC, Paris.

“At NEARCon we’ll be doubling in size this year,” Blocker explained. “e’re going to be at a gorgeous waterfront warehouse right across from the Time Out market. We’ll be featuring everything from protocol news, upgrades, updates, and dev technical workshops. We’ve also opened up the call for speakers, so head over nearcon.org and get your application submitted!”

And as for EthCC, Blocker announced that Aurora will be a sponsor at this year’s event. At EthCC, Aurora founder Alex Shevchenko will host a session on one of the stages. The NEAR ecosystem will also host a co-working lounge similar to the one at ETHDenver, but with a Parisian flair. Close to the venue, the lounge will be place for NEARians to work, connect, or simply take a break from EthCC.

Catch Yadira’s full talk here.

Panel with Mila Kunis and the Armored Kingdom team
Perhaps the most thrilling portion of NEAR’s June Town Hall was a live panel with Mila Kunis and the Armored Kingdom creative team. Hosted by tech columnist and metaverse thought leader Cathy Hackl, it included producers Sharad Devarajan, Lisa Sterbakov, and Lindsey McInerney.

Kunis began by explaining that she developed a passion for video and board games early in life. After a successful foray into NFTs, she decided to challenge the gaming industry with Armored Kingdom.

“We want to create IP and a world that has a multi-use to it,” Kunis explained. “The idea behind Armored Kingdom is that it’s based in story, character, and theme. So we’re putting out the comic book, which will serve as the origin story for all of our species and who they are. Then there’s going to be the card gaming element which will be dropping in a couple of months where players can duel each other, followed by armors and toolboxes, and eventually an animated series. We really are building out an amazing multiverse in Armored Kingdom.”

Sharad Devarajan, co-founder and CEO of Liquid Comics, said that when Kunis came to him with the vision behind Armored Kingdom, he immediately jumped at the chance to become involved with the project.

“I think a lot of people are creating stories very linearly. They’ll create a TV show, film, or comic and then license that to other partners,” Devarajan said. “But the goal and mission of this are re-thinking all of the pieces from the ground up.” 

“The future of the metaverse is going to be some sort of unique storytelling combination where we take people into worlds,” he added. “And that’s what was so amazing about what Mila shared with me: thinking about things world-first and how the narrative would enhance every part of the gameplay.”

Kunis added that the main reason the team chose NEAR for Armored Kingdom was its accessibility. 

“We didn’t want to alienate the normies or for it to feel like it’s an elitist game only for people that understand Web3, crypto, or NFTs,” Kunis explained. “We want this to be a game that a 20-year-old can play just as easily as a 35-year-old stay-at-home mom. And that’s the thing with NEAR—the UI is incredibly easy.”

Sterbakov and McInerney added that NEAR’s commitment to sustainability, long-term vision, and developer-friendly experience contributed to the decision to build on NEAR. 

“My dream is to create a world in Armored Kingdom that’s rich, that can be mined from and be built from,” Kunis concluded. “The ultimate plan would be that, hopefully, people in Web3 will join the community and they themselves do things with it. And that’s the beautiful thing about Web3 is that Armored Kingdom can launch itself into other aspects that people can build on top of.”

Watch Mila and the panel here.

Consensus on the ground with David Morrison
Community lead David Morrison took to the floor to gather insights on ecosystem developments, project funding, and education.

“We started in August 2018. The crypto market was going down and continued to go down. And so compared to where we were then, right now is not a bear market. At the same time, I think that any kind of shakeout or correction is good in a way. It allows people to focus on creating sustainable, long-term models and businesses.”

Illia Polosukhin, NEAR co-founder

“As compared with other organizations in Web3, I’ve found that the NEAR foundation is especially bullish on diversity and equity inclusion. Not just as something that you check off a box, but as something that’s really integral to creating a decentralized future.”

Nicole Tay, Funding Strategy and Communications Lead, NEAR Foundation

“I think some of the projects that are really exciting that we’re working on within the NEAR ecosystem, and that we’ve recently supported are Mintbase and some of the projects they’ve been building in the NFT space. Not to mention Paras, a secondary marketplace, which has been exciting.”

Josh Daniels, Head of Funding, NEAR Foundation

“Apart from the great tech that NEAR has, I think the welcoming community plays a huge role in terms of inclusivity. I think it goes to the culture of what NEAR is trying to create, from the Foundation perspective percolating all the way down to communities. NEAR is inspiring a lot of people to play the hand-holding role and be the mentor that you never had in your life.”

Shreyas Kutty, Education Lead, NEAR Foundation
NEAR Community Update: January 25, 2019
COMMUNITY
January 25, 2019
Everybody approaches blockchain from a slightly different entry point. Some are crypto natives who have ridden these waves before while others are still distracted by the PR disaster of the ICO bubble. Education is one of the most important components of building a great community so we figured the best place to start is by explaining what *we* do at NEAR in plain English. Check it out on our blog.

Beyond education, the other major conversation which has informed our strategy is the one around usability, end-user experience and developer experience. Crossing the next chasm of adoption requires us to build something people actually want and that their users will actually use.

As part of that, we’d like to ask your help: if you’re a developer and/or entrepreneur who is considering developing (or already are developing) on a blockchain, please help us build the platform you actually want by taking the 2-minute Blockchain Developer Survey.

I promise it’s less painful than trying to use a DApp today.

Don’t mess with the EOS hashtag army… ?‍♂
Community and Events
We’ve always operated under the philosophy that it’s best to ship and iterate. While we haven’t released an official TestNet yet, we’re at the stage where we’re welcoming curated feedback on the platform. We’ll be reaching out to more and more developer communities over the upcoming weeks to test drive the platform and its tooling, including the first (official) external-facing workshop next Tuesday in SF.

In the thread of user experience research, this week we held a workshop on designing onboarding flows for DApps. It resurfaced a number of clear takeaways for protocol design but mostly continued to hammer home how important it is to allow developers to hide tokens and wallets from end-users until later in the user’s journey. That’s music to our ears.

Recent Highlights

[SF] Blockchain 101 Onramp: The Design of Blockchain-Based Apps (DApps) (Video, Slides)
Upcoming Events

[SF] Jan 29: Sneak Peak Workshop: TestNet Test Drive with NEAR Protocol
[Online] Jan 29–30: Decentralized Summit (with Erik Trautman)
[SF] Feb 6: Blockchain 101 Onramp: DApp Development Basics
[Denver] Feb 15–17: Judging the Eth Denver hackathon (with Illia Polosukhin)
[SF] Feb 27: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Best Practices for Developing DApps
Alex presenting on sharding at GraphCon in SF today
Writing and Content
Again, if you’re looking for a plain-English explanation of what we do, check out the aforementioned explainer post.

We’ve continued the “Whiteboard Series with NEAR” in Episode 3: Jun Li from Ontology on our YouTube channel.

Engineering Highlights
We are getting ready to unveil the DevNet, so a lot of clean up & documentation work has been done:

Launched the documentation website, which hosts quick starts, tutorials and API docs for node and JS/Python libraries.
Major improvements to nearlib.js. Deployed it to NPM and CDN.
Putting finishing touches on TxFlow consensus simulation, which we will be releasing together with the paper and blog post next week.
Refactored networking, simplifying the code and reducing the number of external dependencies (e.g. complex rust-libp2p which doesn’t match our requirements).
Added default JSON serialization for structs/classes in smart contracts on the compiler level to AssemblyScript. Continue expanding the standard library.
Created default account creation flow. Built an example in-browser wallet app for DevNet & TestNet.
The first version of block explorer is up to help debug DevNet and in future TestNet.
Keep assembling TestNet: running TxFlow and producing blocks between a fixed set of verifiers.
How You Can Get Involved
If you want to stay up to date with what we’re building at NEAR, follow us on Twitter for updates, join the conversation on Discord.

 

https://upscri.be/633436/
Building New Worlds for Artists with NFTs: Paras + NEAR
COMMUNITY
February 5, 2021
NEAR’s decentralized unrestricted MainNet continues to support a range of projects and decentralized applications across open web use cases. Paras – an NFT trading card marketplace launched in December 2020 – is the latest addition to a user-centric ecosystem of projects building on the NEAR platform.

700+ transactions
70+ artists earning $25K+ in 2 months
80+ collectors
$35K+ trading volume
Empowering Digital NFT Artists on Paras with NEAR
Paras co-founders Rahmat “Riqi” Albariqi and Afiq Shofy started out  to create a decentralized social media site. After some months of experiments, they discovered NFTs, or non-fungible tokens—a cryptographic asset where each unit represents something unique and indivisible. Intrigued by the potential for provable digital ownership and sales, they decided to build a platform where digital artists could create and thrive. 

To keep up with the pace of innovation in the NFT space, one of the hottest topics in crypto today, Riqi and Afiq knew they had to develop and launch fast. Getting from the first testnet experiments to full MainNet launch took just three months, a testament to NEAR’s seamless developer experience. The pure build time of the application was four weeks, once they understood the basics of how to build on NEAR.

Launched in December 2020, Paras is a digital art card marketplace built on NEAR that offers artists more control of their creations and digital scarcity for collectors—using NEAR as the medium of exchange between creators and collectors. The name Paras (pronounced Pa-RAS) translates to “face” or “persona,” and “equal,” in Bahasa Indonesian. The vision for Paras is to create a space for artists to cultivate and act on compounded momentum.

Marketplace trading cards on Paras.id
Paras’ artists have collectively made more than $25,000 (USD equivalent) already, in just two months since launching the platform. Paras has facilitated a trading volume of $35,000+ from 700+ transactions, with 80+ active collectors and 70+ artists onboarded. Because the minting fees are so low on NEAR, the barrier to entry for digital artists is very low, and an artist can mint a card without thinking about the minting cost. This means they can sell their cards for as low as $1 or $5, lowering the barrier to entry for participation in the marketplace. This opens the NFT world to new artists and collectors alike.

On Paras, Artists Can Sell Art While Creating Complex Worlds
“We are big on collector’s cards and their surrounding worlds—like YuGiOh and Pokémon. We aim to create a framework where artists can do the same in NFT format. On Paras, artists can expand their portfolios and reach new audiences.” –Riqi, Paras co-founder

On Paras, artists mint and sell limited-edition NFT trading card collections – so each NFT is part of an ever-expanding world created by each artist. NFT creators can grow their audience base directly without middlemen, test the market, and expand their collections collaboratively with the Paras community. They are looking for long-term collaborations and sustainable approaches to expanding their digital art businesses. This framework allows artists to hyperfocus on building the colorful stories behind each card’s representation. For example, artist Fetus Squid launched a batch of digital art trading cards to fund the creation of his novel.

Fetus Squid’s collection of Fantasy Trading Cards on Paras.id
Paras does weekly artist invitations, so there are a limited number of artworks issued on the platform at any given time. After an artist is whitelisted, they can start minting right away. 400+ registered wallets are ready to grab the artist’s card collectibles, so they can begin building a collector fanbase by selling at low prices or in multiples and still make a profit—thanks to the very low cost of minting and storage on NEAR. The long-term hope for cultivating artist careers on Paras is that building collections will evolve into creating their own IP universes in the realm of Pokémon or YuGiOh. 

For collectors, the 3D, interactive visual representation of the art cards sets Paras apart from other NFT marketplaces. Paras’ eye-catching cards pop on the page and have an undeniably rich style even within the fixed size of the trading card art format. The native format of a Paras digital art card mimics real-world trading cards with a portrait ratio of 64:89—and Paras recently added .gif support alongside .png, .jpg, .jpeg.

Join the Lunar New Year Celebration
Excited to try Paras as an artist or an NFT collector? Starting on February 5, Paras + NEAR are running a Lunar New Year Celebration! Artists can mint a Lunar New Year-themed NFT card collection for the Year of the Ox and collectors who purchase the NFTs get a chance to win NEAR prizes. Follow along on Twitter @NearProtocol and @ParasHQ for more specifics and calls for participation.

If you’re curious about building on NEAR, head over to our developer program and join the conversation on our Discord. Keep up to date on future releases by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.
NEAR Community Update: March 27th, 2020
COMMUNITY
March 27, 2020
Welcome (back) to NEAR community update,

This month has been a doozy. We have community and contributors from around the world: Havana, Russia, Ukraine, Berlin, NYC, Texas, Montana, Italy, North Carolina, Denver, Spain, Africa, India, etc. Now, more than ever is the time for community and action. 

We’ve been meeting every week to share local updates, ideas, and to talk about building solutions to the spillover challenges from the rapid changes we’re experiencing globally. If you want to have a chat, listen, or join the next virtual hang please join our Discord or Telegram and drop us a message.

NEAR Coffee Chat
NEW NEAR example applications
We’re excited to showcase our examples page at https://near.dev. We’ve got a number of simple smart contracts that will boost new developers building projects. Each example demonstrates various capabilities of NEAR from basic NEAR Wallet login to cross-contract calls. These examples are written in Rust and AssemblyScript and tagged by technology and category. We’ll be building more examples and would love to add user-contributed examples as well!

Check-out our example applications
To provide the lowest barrier to entry we’re using Gitpod, a service that spins up a development environment with the example running. The workflow is simple: visit the examples page, select one from the grid and click the “Open in Gitpod” button. You may use the online IDE in Gitpod to alter, build, deploy, and test right in the browser. After trying an example in the Gitpod sandbox, the next natural step is to clone the repository and work locally. Each example has a “Browse on Github” button for that. Happy coding!

ARterra’s simulated sport games 
ARterra is a fan engagement platform that elevates engagement by rewarding fans with NFT tokens, coins, and AR gaming rewards. Flux and ARterra have partnered to bring custom markets to esports simulations including Madden and 2K.

Check-out the tweet here!
Engineering Update
We have enhanced the user experience of our CLI tool NEAR shell, which now features a smoother login flow. Just run ‘near login’ as normal and you’ll see how easy it has become. Additionally, we’re upgrading some tooling such that we’ll now require NodeJS version 12. Makes sure to upgrade with ‘npm install near-shell -g’.

The last outstanding feature, namely garbage collection of old states, is undergoing thorough review:

Part of it, responsible for maintaining refcounts on blocks, is already added;
We are working on backward compatibility and migration tests;
Network metrics are recorder here.
Other than that we are full speed stabilizing and fixing issues, e.g: 

Addressing the memory leak in the Reed Solomon library we use; and
Fixing tx forwarding on epoch boundaries.
How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.


Case Study: Flipside Crypto on Building an Analytics Platform on the BOS
CASE STUDIES
August 2, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In these Case Study videos, NEAR Foundation showcases some of these projects. 

In the latest NEAR Foundation Case Study video, we hear Flipside Crypto’s Evan “Captain” Owens and GJ Flannery. Not only is Flipside a team building innovative on-chain data and analytics solutions on NEAR, but they were one of the first ecosystem projects to build on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). 

In this case study video, GJ Flannery (Growth & Community) and Captain Owens (Strategic Partnerships) talk about the platform’s ecosystem of analytics and developers building widgets on the BOS with Flipside’s on-chain data. If you’re a founder or developer looking to hear directly from developers who’ve built on the BOS, then this Flipside Case Study video is not to be missed. 
NEAR Foundation’s Response to Tornado Cash, Ownership and Regulation
NEAR FOUNDATION
August 19, 2022
NEAR as an ecosystem identifies ownership––the ability for all people to control their own data, assets, and power of governance––as its most important shared goal. 

In light of recent regulatory developments concerning the cryptocurrency mixing service Tornado Cash and the ensuing banning of several services, it’s important to reiterate the Foundation’s views on privacy, ownership, and regulation. 

These are fundamental values for NEAR and for the Web3 movement more broadly. The ecosystem’s response to this watershed moment will have a lasting effect on the evolution of blockchain technologies and their regulation around the world.

Ownership and Privacy 
The NEAR Foundation believes privacy is essential to autonomy and the protection of human dignity. It forms the bedrock on which many other human rights are built.

Privacy enables citizens to protect themselves from unwarranted interference and affords anyone the freedom to negotiate when and with whom they share information. 

Everyone has a right to privacy because it is a critical aspect of ownership and autonomy. Individuals simply seeking to preserve their own privacy, or to build tools to support others in doing so, should not be criminalized. But each individual is also participating in a system that needs to be able to regulate itself. The NEAR Foundation believes in fair, reasonable, and proportionate regulation of blockchain technologies.

Web3 will never deliver on its potential if systems that allow participants to launder money, fund terrorism, or commit crimes are allowed to propagate. Blockchains are not starting entirely new systems from zero, in a vacuum. They are interwoven with existing systems of rule and law and must operate within and alongside them.

Work to be done
The Foundation acknowledges there is work to be done to educate regulators about the nuances of these tools. The goal is to build trust not erode it. 

Some of this will be about compromise. Until privacy infrastructure is more mature, KYC at the edges of a system is required, but inside the system, participants should have the freedom to move around privately within it. 

Improving and investing in zero-knowledge protocols is also critical: these allow the parties in a transaction to verify identities and validate sufficient data to establish trust while keeping specifics private. It’s something the NEAR Foundation and Pagoda are working actively on. 

Combining the two will be especially powerful so that KYC doesn’t need complete access to one’s information at the entire expense of privacy. In this way, Web3 can create an improved paradigm that is better both at preserving privacy and preventing crime. And communities should be able to have enough information to govern their own exclusion lists and vote to ban people who don’t follow the rules of the system. 

Collaboration and Community
While the Treasury’s decision to block and ban Tornado Cash is an overstep that may well create more problems than it solves, the Web3 community must recognize that more ill-informed decisions will be made if we don’t continue to make collaborative efforts to educate regulators.

A crypto-based Web will be much stronger only if it builds on the foundations of what came before rather than trying to rebuild an entirely new paradigm. 

Total crypto-anarchy is not the answer. Pragmatic ownership is. We must continue to correct the balance between preventing crime and preserving individual privacy. 

The Foundation believes in building communities that support the rights of individuals and enforce their own rules for working effectively together. 

Next Steps 
To continue the NEAR Foundation’s commitment to preserving privacy while respecting the rule of law, it will take the necessary steps to join Coin Center, the leading non-profit focused on the policy issues facing cryptocurrencies. 

Second of all, the NEAR Foundation will actively seek to establish an association to help ensure that validators have better protections when it comes to censorship resistance, and will look to appoint board members to the NEAR Foundation Council that align with this mission. 

Last, but not least, the NEAR Foundation is creating a grant fund for projects specializing in building Zero Knowledge (ZK) solutions to help preserve privacy while allowing projects and communities to comply with law enforcement. 

If you’re a project working on ZK technologies, please make an application to the NEAR Foundations grant team here and mention ‘ZK Grant’ in the referral section. Feel free to reach out to [email protected] with any questions using the subject line ‘ZK Grant’.


NEAR’s May Town Hall Highlights
COMMUNITY
June 2, 2022
In the NEAR galaxy, May has been a month for creatives, coders, community, and everything in between. NEAR’s May Town Hall was a perfect reflection of those themes, from a record-setting number of NEAR wallets being surpassed to a slew of IRL events like the inaugural Miami Hacker House.

And since May was NFT month, NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament hosted a Town Hall panel going beyond the hype of NFTs. The community also saw one of the first projects from the Terra ecosystem accept the open invitation to migrate over to NEAR. 

Here’s everything that went down at the NEAR Town Hall, May edition. 

NEAR growth milestones and announcements
May was a groundbreaking month for user growth on the protocol, with NEAR surpassing the 10 million wallets created mark. Flament noted that since the partnership announcement with move-to-earn project Sweatcoin, over 6 million wallets have been created.

“To put things in perspective, Bitcoin has 68 million active wallets, Ethereum 71 million, Solana two million, and Avalanche one million,” Flament commented. “We see this as an important platform to enable active, engaged users and shows phenomenal ecosystem growth over the last few months.”

Flament also pointed out a slew of recent announcements from Aurora, NEAR’s Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). In May, Aurora initiated a $90 million developer fund to boost DeFi on the NEAR Protocol. Aurora also launched the Aurora Plus, a new membership platform providing a suite of benefits to developers who join.

Listen to Marieke’s talk here.

NEAR events: Permissionless and Miami Hacker House
Next, May Town Hall attendees were treated to a recap of notable NEAR events that took place throughout the past month. Changwe Mutakasha, a business development consultant for the NEAR Foundation, gave his impressions of NEAR’s presence at the Permissionless conference in Miami, Florida.

“Despite market conditions, the overall mood of the conference was positive with high awareness of NEAR,” Mutakasha recounted. “Many projects approached us organically, including a few that actually confirmed they are moving to NEAR from other L1s.”

NEAR’s presence at Permissionless also included co-founder Illia Polosukhin participating in a DeFi panel with founders from Polygon, Optimism, and Arbitrum. And at the conclusion of the first day of Permissionless, NEAR hosted a happy hour with over 150 attendees and more than 600 on the waiting list. Mutakasha then ceded the floor to ecosystem lead Cameron Dennis, who led the NEAR Hacker House Miami initiative that took place around the same time.

“We had a ton of submissions and people from all over the world traveled to Miami to participate,” Dennis said. “People would not only learn basic stuff, but also dive deeper into certain topics like NEAR accounts, key management, and building subgraphs.”

Overall, there were about 300 people who attended the Hacker House Miami, which included dancing, good food, and even a full-time masseuse. All attendees, speakers, and sponsors will also be admitted into the NEAR Hacker House DAO, to be announced shortly. Dennis pointed out that the Hacker House was critical in allowing the developer community to meet in real life, and that the next one will take place during Consensus in Austin, Texas in June.

Hear Changwe and Cameron’s remarks here.

NFT projects in focus for NEAR Grants
On the education and funding fronts, NFTs were front and center for the May Town Hall. Sharif Abushadi, head of NEAR Education, noted that NEAR Certified Developer certificates will now be shipping in the form of NFTs. He also previewed the latest NFT-focused episode of “TL;DR with Ben” on NEAR University. The series will cover core Web3 and blockchain concepts in plain language.

Abushadi then shared some notable NFT projects that were recipients of NEAR Grants in May. The first was UniqArt, a Music NFT project founded by an entrepreneur in India who’s focusing on engaging artists in that region. Built on NEAR, UniqArt recently onboarded 50 musicians, including a top Punjabi artist. NEAR is also funding the CURA fellowship project to further the generative art ecosystem and community.

Sherif concluded his segment by previewing upcoming fellowships and NFT projects. They included NEARBooks, a proposed marketplace for buying and selling books in NFT format, and NEAR-f-tickets, which will allow people to buy tokenized versions of event tickets. And, of course, the highly anticipated play-to-earn NFT game Burrito Battle, with players fighting mini mules for rewards and bragging rights.

Tune into Sherif’s talk here.

Terra community invitation and Regional Hubs
In light of recent events, the NEAR Foundation decided to initiate a substantial fund and extend an open invitation to all developers, projects, and founders who wish to migrate from Terra over to NEAR. Nicky Chalabi, from the foundation’s ecosystem team, reiterated NEAR’s ongoing commitment to providing resources to the Terra community. She then introduced the founder of a move-to-earn project that has already migrated to NEAR.

The project is called Tracer, and founder Jacob explained that the goal is to build a sustainable move-to-earn experience that doesn’t suffer from the common tokenomics flaws that have plagued other projects in the space.

“We started on Terra and, searching for other migration points, felt that our best option was to go to NEAR,” Jacob said. “So we landed on NEAR and are now trying to build the most playable and sustainable move-to-earn project on Web3 with our composable, 3D NFTs.”

The Town Hall also featured several exciting developments in various NEAR Regional Hubs. The Balkans Regional Hub made its presence felt at the recent BlockSplit conference in Croatia, the biggest Web3 conference in the Balkans to date. Ida Pandur, general manager of the Balkans Regional Hub, added that over 100 people attended NEAR meetups adjacent to BlockSplit.

But perhaps the biggest Regional Hub news in May was the launch of the Kenya Regional Hub. Founded in partnership with the local NEAR Guild Sankore, the new hub is being headed up by Kevin Imani and a four-person team. Imani provided a detailed update on the Regional Hubs activities and strategy in attracting students, conducting pitch competitions, and marketing channels to reach quality blockchain enthusiasts.

Tune into Kevin’s talk here.

Panel on going beyond the hype of NFTs
The Town Hall wrapped up with an NFT panel hosted by Eli Tan from CoinDesk. A diverse array of individuals, creators, and projects gave their take on where NFTs are heading, how NFTs can empower creators, and innovative use cases for NFTs and DAOs.

Clarion North, Tamago

“What excites me about NFTs from the music side of things is the ability to be transparent. It doesn’t matter what Rolling Stone magazine has to say or if the government has an opinion. You can have some form of immutable authentication that everybody in the world can actually hold and accept as value.”

Chloe Lewis, Marma J Foundation

“What I like to do is experiment with AstroDAO and what DAOs can do on NEAR, whether it’s purchasing an NFT or adding a new minter. But the idea is that we have these tools on NEAR to allow people to come in. So when you ask me why am I building on NEAR, it’s the ease of allowing new people to come on board. So as we onboard the next billion people onto NFTs and the blockchain, it can be done in a safe, transparent, and user-friendly way.

Asya Abdrahaman, The Kin DAO

“We started NFTs for Good to launch many homeless and displaced people into income. We started on Open Sea, teaching NFT Bible Study to our communities, and from there we met NEAR Protocol. We felt like it was a nice address to have, and that the NEAR community is very regenerative and cares about the environment. If we’re going to be walking the walk, we should be on a blockchain that’s making similar strides in terms of sustainability.” 

Nate Grier, Mintbase

“We’re on NEAR and super excited to be where we’re at. We love Open Sea, but we see it as kind of like the stock market. What we’re trying to build is more of a digital railway system for NFT creators. We’re more interested in the farmer’s markets, with people firing up their own incremental niche markets using our interface or even their own.”

Sophia Adampour, Verse Gallery

“What we’re emphasizing is that blockchain is the only approach to put consumers at the center. So we’re starting out with an NFT gallery and an artist royalty program. And we’re not just reaching out to artists and creators, but to everyone that’s interested in this technology. The Metaverse and NFTs are two super hyped words right now, so having Verse Gallery as a space where the metaverse meets reality is bringing all sorts of new people into art and NFTs.”
TrustToken Bridges TUSD to NEAR
CASE STUDIES
November 2, 2020
Stablecoins are fundamental to the healthy growth of a blockchain ecosystem. That’s why the NEAR collective is excited to announce that TrueUSD (TUSD) is the first stablecoin coming to the NEAR mainnet.

TUSD is one of the world’s most secure and transparent stablecoins, and among the first to market. TUSD is collateralized 1-to-1 with dollars held in audited escrow accounts across multiple trust companies. This aggregate collateral is attested live – versus monthly, as is industry standard – by top independent accounting firm Armanino LLP.

As of writing, TUSD is the fifth-biggest stablecoin with a market cap of over $340 million. It’s available on over 80 exchanges, 160 markets, 20 OTC desks across five continents and is used across over 150 countries. However, TrustToken, the creators of TUSD, noticed that the scalability problems of the Ethereum blockchain were increasingly hampering the usefulness and functionality of their stablecoin, especially during the exploding popularity of DeFi.

Challenges With TUSD on Ethereum
Ever since the explosive growth of Decentralized Finance in 2020, gas fees on Ethereum have grown increasingly volatile. One day, a transaction might cost the equivalent of $0.25, while the next it would need $10 or more to complete. Unless you’re a sophisticated DeFi user, this makes participating in DeFi on Ethereum significantly harder, particularly for low-value transactions. Even for sophisticated users, gas fees across multiple transactions threatened the very yields DeFi would generate, demanding sizable sums to participate with positive ROI. 

Depending on how congested the network is, transactions can take a long time to settle or fail altogether. So users can end up paying a high transaction fee, waiting a long time, and ultimately not completing the requested transaction. It’s a poor user experience that discourages users to transact.

Ethereum gas prices have gone up significantly since May 2020 (source: https://etherscan.io/chart/gasprice)
Why TrustToken is Bridging TUSD to NEAR
The scalability problems on Ethereum made it increasingly hard for people to transact with TUSD at a reasonable price, and in a meaningful time frame. TrustToken started looking for a blockchain platform where they could expand the use cases of TUSD without sacrificing the integrity and the security of their underlying protocol. They found this platform in NEAR.

Using NEAR, TUSD can become a stablecoin that:

has even lower gas fees, despite network fee fluctuations
processes transactions in seconds, not minutes (1 second block time and 3 second finality)
retains its built-in security
supports a wide variety of use cases
benefits from a full stack of developer tools, already launched MainNet
With TUSD on NEAR, DeFi/Open Finance will no longer be limited to sophisticated users with large holdings. The price of gas is low, predictable, and universal with NEAR. Both small and large transactions will cost only a fraction of a cent. Anyone should be able to participate in the Open Finance ecosystem, regardless of how much money they’re investing. 

TUSD is set to become a cornerstone stablecoin in the NEAR ecosystem. Additionally, NEAR has been built with scalability in mind. This means that it can support games with millions of users. It’s one of the reasons why VHS, the creator of horse racing game ZED, decided to transfer their games from Ethereum to NEAR.

TUSD can become the primary means of transaction inside those games. The same goes for NFTs. Popular NFT marketplace Mintbase is moving to NEAR because the gas fees on Ethereum were too high. The NFT space is heating up and bringing in ever more people, so its DApps need to rely on a blockchain platform where gas fees are low, transactions settle quickly, and where the network can handle a large number of users.

Prediction markets, too, are struggling because of Ethereum’s high gas fees. Market protocols such as Flux are moving to NEAR because of it. With the ETH-NEAR Rainbow bridge, people can use a stablecoin such as TUSD to interact with these market protocols without even realizing which blockchain platform the protocols have been built with.

Finally, everyday retail payments become a possibility with TUSD on NEAR. As more companies outside the blockchain world learn about the potential of the Open Web, they could integrate TUSD into their payment options. Eventually, you’ll be able to TUSD to pay for invoices, travel booking, and morning coffee – with an asset already denominated in dollars, like the goods being sold. TUSD is expected to go live on NEAR late 2020 / early 2021.

About NEAR
Native usability is NEAR’s primary concern. Features such as its contract-based account model and NEAR Drops make NEAR significantly more usable for developers and end users. Additionally, NEAR has focused on bringing performance for applications. The dynamic sharding approach called Nightshade works on top of a proof-of-stake BFT consensus mechanism called Doomslug. This allows network throughput to scale as demand grows. It targets 1-second blocks so developers can build performant applications.

Find out more about NEAR Protocol on our website, follow us on Twitter, or join our community on Discord. If you want to build on NEAR too, visit our Developer Portal to get started today.

About TrustToken
TrustToken builds modern financial infrastructure to make economic opportunity open to all. TrustToken’s TrueCurrencies (TUSD, TGBP, THKD, TCAD, TAUD) are the world’s first and only independently live-attested, fully collateralized stablecoins.

Collectively trading on over 100 exchanges and OTC desks, TrueCurrencies generate billions in monthly volume in +150 countries. Enjoy near instant transactions, the lowest transaction costs of any stablecoin, easy exchange between fiat, obsessive customer service and easy access to earning opportunities.

The TrueFi platform is pioneering a new approach to on-chain uncollateralized lending, letting TRU holders vote on borrowers and deal terms and creating more ways for TrueCurrency users to generate returns in DeFi.

Learn more on the TrustToken website, join the conversation on Twitter, or join our team. 


NEAR Foundation Partners with Absolute Labs to Accelerate How Brands Connect with Customers in Web3
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 20, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Absolute Labs, a company revolutionizing Web3’s marketing stack. Its “Wallet Relationship Management™ platform can be used by Web2 brands and Web3 startups alike to acquire, convert and retain customers on the Open Web. 

To help in this endeavor, the company announced an $8M seed round of funding at NFT NYC in the past week. Other funding partners include backers like Samsung Next, Aglae Ventures, Sparkle Ventures (Animoca Brands), The Luxury Fund and MoonPay. 

”We are thrilled to have the NEAR Foundation as a partner in helping us to accelerate how marketing is done in the next Internet,” says Samir Addamine, Absolute Labs’ CEO and co-founder. “Both our organizations share a vision to accelerate the world’s transition to decentralized marketplaces and more open, transparent and valued user engagement, so it’s a great fit for us.”

What is Wallet Relationship Management
Wallet Relationship Management (WRM™) starts with the premise that wallets hold the keys to everything Web3 — from proving identity, providing access to value-rich brand experiences, facilitating payments, creating “ownership” opportunities for customers, and much more. Combining on-chain data from wallets along with assets that Web2 brands can also inject from their Web2 systems, this platform supports all facets of the marketing funnel, from acquisition to conversion and retention of loyalty.

Users of the platform can gain deep insights into their customers and their on-chain preferences and behaviors, identify actionable segments to track and engage, and craft cross-chain and cross-channel (Web2 and Web3) campaigns to develop and nurture relationships

Absolute Labs customers can also use WRM to reactivate dormant wallet customers by using the WRM dashboard to distribute meaningful incentives such as rewards tokens, NFTs, and more. 

To date, Absolute Labs has 40+ companies using their services. With WRM, these customers get an enterprise-grade suite of connectors and APIs to seamlessly integrate with their existing marketing tech stack. 

Absolute Labs has an incredibly strong product and is a fantastic addition to the NEAR ecosystem. Their Wallet Relationship Management platform is a clear market leader in the burgeoning Web3 martech space, and is already an indispensable component of the modern marketing stack. By bringing Absolute Labs into the NEAR ecosystem, it creates a seamless Web3 on-ramp for brands and will enable them to engage, retain, and reactivate customers like never before.

DISCLOSURE: Any information shared in this announcement regarding our partnership with Absolute Labs should not be considered as a binding agreement or representation, and may be subject to change without notice. The information presented in this communication is for informational purposes only and should not be construed as investment advice. Any decisions made based on this information are solely the responsibility of the individual or entity making them.
NEAR Enhances Decentralization with Validator Upgrade
DEVELOPERS
January 7, 2022
Since the NEAR Mainnet launch in October 2020, the network has seen a steady increase in the number of validators, with many more wanting to participate. Nevertheless, the extremely high threshold of 3.6M $NEAR has made it challenging for new validators to join the network. So much so, the NEAR Foundation has, at times, supported validators with substantial delegations in order to allow for some of the 60 validators to remain active on Mainnet.

That is why, in December 2021, the NEAR Protocol team released the updated validator selection algorithm. The new selection algorithm now allows for up to 100 validator nodes on the Mainnet, and reduces the validators’ barrier to entry by bringing down the seat price from 3.6 million $NEAR to 67,000. This lowered seat price makes it easier for them to join the active validator set and to maintain their seats. 

Additionally, the NEAR Foundation aims to limit delegation amounts to a maximum of 100,000 NEAR per validator, as part of its continuous commitment to building a fully decentralized network. 

NEAR Delegation Role 
Historically, the NEAR Foundation has used delegation to bootstrap network decentralization by helping new validators enter the active set and build their following but it wasn’t intended to be a long term grant. Current validators on NEAR Mainnet who had received historical delegation from NEAR Foundation should expect to see current delegations from NEAR Foundation to be withdrawn in the next 48 hours as part of this change.

This will be followed by the NEAR Foundation delegating up to 100,000 NEAR to validators who had been selected to receive delegation by submitting their delegation application up to December 13, 2021. This new wave of delegation will take place during the coming weeks.

This change is only the beginning of a number of ecosystem-wide initiatives that will continue increasing the number of validators and improving network decentralization. With the upcoming launch of phase 1 of sharding in early 2022, we expect another 200 validators to join Mainnet. 

NEAR has always been, and will always be committed to building a secure, scalable, and decentralized network to help onboard the world into Web3. To take advantage of the upcoming expansion, there are other opportunities for NEAR Foundation delegation, including participating in the validator governance progress. 

Please consider joining the NEAR Validator governance process by participating in the NEAR Validator Advisory Board general election in early 2022. Stay tuned for more announcements.
NEAR Foundation Transparency Report: Q1 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 6, 2023
Hello, NEAR World! Welcome to NEAR Foundation’s newly reformatted “Transparency Report”. Published quarterly, NEAR Foundation’s Transparency Report explores the NEAR Foundation’s progress towards  its OKRs, as well as the latest technology news and updates from the NEAR ecosystem.

NEAR Foundation is kicking off the new Transparency Report with the Q1 edition. It features a NEAR Foundation Treasury report and a variety of exciting updates on the recently announced Blockchain Operating System (BOS), the NEAR ecosystem’s thriving projects, and NEAR Foundation’s Web2.5 strategy. You’ll get the latest on NEAR Horizon Accelerator, NDC, NEAR’s Web2 → Web3 partnerships, and more. 

NEAR Foundation Treasury Update
At the end of Q1 2023, NEAR Foundation’s treasury totalled $1.1b, including $365m fiat reserves and 316m NEAR ($630m at a closing price of $1.99). 

The NEAR Foundation has continued to adopt a highly responsible approach to treasury management in order to minimize the risk of loss in a turbulent market. Exposure to non-NEAR assets therefore has been limited, with fiat reserves held in AAA-rated Swiss bank accounts. 



Q1 has been a turbulent quarter for the US banking sector. However, the NEAR Foundation treasury’s proactive risk management policies — including limited exposure to Silicon Valley Bank (under FDIC insurance levels) and no exposure to Credit Suisse — have prevented any loss of funds. NEAR Foundation’s risk management strategy helps ensure that the NEAR Foundation maintains sufficient resources and runway even if the market downturn lasts for multiple years. 

As a result, the NEAR Foundation is in an extremely strong position to continue to support the ongoing growth and development of the NEAR protocol and ecosystem .

A recap of NEAR’s go-forward strategy 
Despite well-known issues with Web2 platforms and legacy institutions, and the significant progress made in the blockchain industry, Web3 has yet to fully deliver on its promise to open the web. The Web3 of today is held back by inaccessible user experiences, siloed apps that are difficult to discover and explore, few real-world use cases, and technology tribalism. While there is a lot of hype in Web3, there just isn’t enough value for users. 

This is why the NEAR Foundation is focusing on making the most of NEAR protocol’s fundamentals and convictions. The NEAR protocol has the best tech in Web3, world-class talent, and an ample runway. The NEAR protocol also has the ability to achieve mainstream adoption through a focus on users, rather than cultish maximalism or hype, and the understanding that converting strong Web2 projects to Web3 will get the NEAR ecosystem there. 

With NEAR’s recent launch of the Blockchain Operating System, this next phase of adoption is already underway. The BOS makes it easier than ever for Web2 apps and communities to take advantage of Web3’s opportunities while giving developers and end users a richer, more sustainable experience. 

In 2023, NEAR Foundation is focused on two different approaches to bringing more users to the NEAR protocol and the BOS. It begins with the NEAR Foundation’s top-down approach to partnerships, led by a world-class business development team. By working with major applications and brands with substantial, established communities, the NEAR Foundation is partnering on real use cases that drive engagement on the NEAR protocol, like ticketing and earning. High-traction focus verticals for these partnerships include sports, entertainment, and loyalty. Major partnerships in recent months include Grupo Nutresa, Google Cloud, and Sweat Economy. 

Q1 has also seen NEAR Foundation’s bottom-up, grassroots approach. This is designed to empower the NEAR ecosystem to invest in its own expansion through grants, primarily through 3 major community DAOs: Developer DAO, Marketing DAO, and Creatives DAO (visit the DAO websites to get involved). These grassroots DAOs will be supported by the NDC, which has launched several working groups in Q1. This quarter has also seen the launch of NEAR Horizon, an early-stage accelerator that will provide support across education, tech, hiring, legal, UX, and GTM guidance, to promising projects and founders on NEAR.

With the launch of the NDC, the DAOs, and the accelerator, NEAR Foundation will focus less on the allocation of capital directly to projects. Instead, the NEAR Foundation will support the community in making these decisions and further decentralizing key elements of the ecosystem. Also, Proximity supports projects building DeFi applications on the NEAR protocol through grants, advisory services, and developer support.

Q1 Ecosystem OKR performance
Throughout Q1, NEAR Foundation experienced several areas of growth toward our OKRs. While the NEAR Foundation met many of its goals, there is always work to be done. 

There is a lot of green. However, as an ecosystem we missed our North Star. NEAR Foundation’s goal was 2M MAAs but we came in short, just under 1M. There are a couple of key reasons for this, as well as a path forward to improve performance next quarter.
SWEAT (which still represents the majority of MAA) is revisiting their MAA ramp up. Current expectations are that MAA growth will occur mostly in the second half of the year, with the US app launching in September.
NEAR Foundation’s BD team has been closing great deals (23 in Q1 alone) — most announcements haven’t been made (6 only) and most launches will be towards the end of the year.
NEAR Foundation has built a new model to better forecast and set MAA expectations. With this new model, the NEAR Foundation is expecting just over 1.5M MAAs in Q2 of this year with a path to 10M by the end of 2023.

Outside of MAAs, the NEAR ecosystem  had a successful quarter with several areas of strength.

Crystalized strategy around the BOS with new branding + alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com launched in Denver (6K+ accounts).
Growth of Twitter followers far outpacing others in Web3 (175K per month vs. flat growth from others).
NDC Trust launched and grassroots DAOs starting to become fully independent and operational.
NEAR Horizon went from ideation to MVP with pre-cohort launch and partners signed up for full launch.
Despite macro conditions, the NEAR Foundation continues to manage its treasury effectively and NEAR ecosystem–based projects continue to raise external capital (Open Forest Protocol, Few and Far,  Calimero). The Backer / VC Network data infrastructure was also revamped.
Lots of exciting BD deals closed, setting the stage for a strong end of year when they go live.
The Data / Analytics team was formed to operationalize KPIs and better track and understand what’s going on in the ecosystem.
Q1 saw a consistent increase in total new accounts with 1.5m new accounts, as well as a consistent increase in total new contracts, seeing 3,800 new contracts on the NEAR protocol. Q1 also saw 25m transactions on the NEAR protocol.
NEAR Foundation is currently working on a suite of real-time dashboards so the ecosystem can have visibility into the progress against our OKRs. You can find this at NEARAtlas.com. 

OKR1: NEAR is the BOS 
At ETHDenver, it was announced that the NEAR protocol announced that it is becoming the Blockchain Operating System — a common layer for discovering and creating Open Web experiences, across all blockchains. As part of that announcement, NEAR protocol launched Alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com, a composable frontend for Web3 allowing end users to easily and frictionlessly discover all of Web3’s possibilities in one seamless experience. It also enables developers to create and code interfaces in a single environment with the ability to fork a host of components to build apps faster, and more efficiently than ever before.

The BOS announcement generated a lot of excitement, inspiring Pantera Capital’s Franklin Bi to tweet, “Decentralized frontends are the future.”

Quoting Illia’s announcement tweet, Redpoint’s Managing Director Jason Warner said: “Something I actually think is interesting is what Illia and crew are doing with NEAR and what they are calling the open web. It’s an experiment worth running for sure starting with Near.Social.”

“We need innovation at every level of the stack, not just the core protocol and smart contract layers,” tweeted Ali Yahya, General Partner at a16z crypto. “NEAR is leading the way.”

Since launching alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com, there has been strong usage and curiosity from the NEAR ecosystem community, with 6,000 accounts created and over 2,500 individual components published. The Pagoda team has been working closely with the active community of builders to help enhance the BOS experience.

Illia Polosukhin, CEO of Pagoda and co-founder of the NEAR protocol, also hosted a technical workshop where he zoomed in on each layer of the BOS stack and showed some examples of features, components to build from, and how gateways can become super apps by integrating with the BOS. 

The next big update on the Blockchain Operating System will be at Consensus. You can find out more about NEAR’s presence at Consensus here.

OKR2: NEAR is a thriving decentralized Ecosystem
One of the NEAR Foundation’s core mandates is to support the continued decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem, and great progress has been made on this front since the previous transparency report. 

A roundup of the ongoing decentralization efforts across the NEAR ecosystem follows. 

NEAR Digital Collective (NDC)
The NDC initiative was announced towards the end of last year, and has grown to become a grassroots movement with hundreds of participants, including users, projects, and other stakeholders. The NDC is focused on self-governance, aiming to empower the ecosystem to collectively make decisions in a robust and decentralized way on everything from funding to elected representatives and more. 

There are now several working groups that have been launched as part of the NDC’s work, covering various ecosystem needs including governance (Governance WG), marketing (Distribution Network WG), project incubation (Startup DAO), and legal work (Legal WG). 

To learn more about the NDC, please see here.

NEAR Community Treasury Launch
One of the NDC’s biggest achievements is the recent launch of the NEAR Community Treasury. Championed by the NDC’s Governance Working Group with support from the NEAR Foundation and other stakeholders, the NEAR Community Treasury leverages an innovative legal framework to provide the ecosystem with a robust, sustainable, and decentralized treasury. 

At the outset, the NEAR Community Treasury will hold 5,662,061 NEAR, which was donated to the NEAR Digital Collective by the NEAR ecosystem community (along with a nominal amount of USDT that was donated by the NEAR Foundation as part of the administrative setup process). 

The NEAR Community Treasury wallet is viewable here.

Grassroots DAO funding activity
The three core grassroots DAOs — Developer DAO, Marketing DAO, and Creatives DAO — have been making great strides recently in updating their internal governance and processes to ensure they are as transparent, sustainable, and effective as possible. 

NEAR Foundation has been supporting each of the grassroots DAOs through that update process. Both the Developer DAO and Marketing DAO have already begun allocating funding again, and the Creatives DAO intends to follow suit shortly.

The grassroots DAOs remain the key source of funding for anyone looking to build in the NEAR ecosystem.

NEAR Horizon (Accelerator) 
The mission of NEAR Horizon is to attract the highest quality founders to build on NEAR protocol and support them in taking off. To that end, NEAR Horizon’s strategy consists of three components. 

Product
The NEAR Horizon team is building a dApp on NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System that is a double-sided marketplace, which allows founders to find people and organizations who can help them. The team launched an MVP of the product for beta testers in early March 2023. 

Partnerships
The team is launching a series of RFPs (the first RFP was released in Feb 2023) to create partnerships with people and organizations who are well positioned to help Founders. In early Q2, the NEAR Horizon team will be releasing additional open calls for:

Engineering support resources
Talent / recruitment platforms and services
Legal platforms and services
Back office accounting platforms and services
Marketing services
Product management services
Content & Tooling
The NEAR Horizon team will provide asynchronous content and access to tooling within the dApp. Think go-to-market examples, legal how-to guides and tools like back office accounting software specifically made for Web3 businesses. 

OKR3: Web2 → Web3 
Starting in Q2 last year, the Business Development team’s  plan was to revamp and hire a full BD team, restructure past historic deals, solve for key infrastructure gaps, and bring the highest quality builders to the NEAR ecosystem. The team is now fully hired, ramped up, has met most key infrastructure gaps, and is in process of renegotiating past deals. Q1 marked the first full quarter that BD has focused on bringing builders to the NEAR ecosystem.

The goal of BD is to help enterprises and startups realize that the NEAR protocol should be the default chain of choice to start building any blockchain application. Fundamentally, BD is attempting to kickstart a flywheel effect to drive network effects to attract builders to the NEAR protocol in order to make it that default choice. 

The flywheel starts with enterprises, marquee use cases, or household brands building on NEAR that provide brand awareness and legitimacy. This in turn attracts startups to NEAR. Collectively, these support real world use cases and increase adoption to attract more users to the chain, which in turn draw more enterprises and startups to build on NEAR. 

For core use cases, BD is focused on a few key categories, including gaming, loyalty and rewards, and emerging verticals such as sustainability and decentralized science. In Q1 we focused on improving the number of partnership opportunities we were seeing, and our pipeline has increased dramatically. We found high quality sources of leads to be from backer referrals and agencies / dev shops so have strengthened those ties. BD has also seen a rise in projects looking for more support and a number of builders came over from other chains to make NEAR as their primary, or sole, chain (e.g. Passion, Dropt, Solaire). Geographically, the team now has expanded its focus to India and Korea, and expects to drive meaningful opportunities from entrepreneurs in those countries. 

SWEAT continues to be a  category leader in the move-to-earn space becoming one of the most popular Web3 apps in the world. SWEAT is being consistently used by a million monthly active users engaging voluntarily with NEAR protocol and using SWEAT tokens for staking or transactions. NEAR Foundation’s BD team will continue working with the talented SWEAT team on launching new features such as Learn & Earn, token swaps, and games that will create deeper bonds between the NEAR blockchain and SWEAT users. 

For NEAR Foundation’s Q1 goals, the BD team set out to close three Tier 1 partnerships and seven Tier 2 partnerships for a total of 10 lighthouse partnerships — a goal which the NEAR Foundation surpassed. Although several of those deals are yet to be announced, NEAR Foundation is excited to highlight and welcome the following partners to the NEAR ecosystem:

Dropt — By using Dropt, teams and enterprises can now easily and seamlessly introduce blockchain-powered loyalty and engagement mechanics into their customer journey. These Web3 features will help increase engagement, retention, and lifetime value without customers ever even knowing they are interacting with the blockchain.
BORA (Kakao games) — An affiliate of Kakao Games and its parent company BORANETWORK, BORA is focused on game development and blockchain-based gaming ecosystems. NEAR and BORA will support each other in spreading local brand awareness, invest in research and collaboration on cross-chain, host events, and generate Web3 opportunities in Korea.
WEMADE  – As one of the largest publicly-listed gaming companies in South Korea and a leading game developer in South Korea for over 20 years, WEMADE will be vital in NEAR’s push toward mainstream adoption of Web3. NEAR and WEMADE will support the development of blockchain apps in Korea as well as other markets.
Crystals of Naramunz – Featured in a premium spot under Sweden Showcases side by side with traditional games at one of the biggest gaming events in the country.  Their alpha waitlist surpassed 10,000 signups.
SLiC Images – In February, NBA All-Star Baron Davis announced SLiC Images, a photo and video rights management platform. Built on NEAR, it has received a grant worth $250K funded by Mintbase Grants Program.
SeatlabNFT – Recently named as finalists in the Mobile and Emerging Technologies category for StartUp of the Year.
Hydra Ventures – A first in the Web3 space, Hydra Ventures is designed to help other investment DAOs get off the ground. This partnership will open the door to the eventual launch of the first investment DAO in the Near ecosystem, with the goal of helping to provide critical funding to purpose-driven, socially impactful web3 startups.
NEAR Foundation is also excited to partner with Flow Carbon (tokenized carbon credits market), Starchain Gazer (play and own gaming), Vizta Digital (fashion metaverse), and Popp (customer engagement for SMBs) to continue expanding the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR Foundation’s BD team remains committed to bringing the best Web2 and Web3 builders to NEAR, and look forward to sharing next quarter’s list of partnerships.

Building stronger connections with the NEAR ecosystem
As part of NEAR Foundation’s ongoing commitment to transparency and building stronger connections with the NEAR ecosystem, a number of new initiatives are in progress. 

First, the NEAR Foundation is restarting NEAR Town Halls. Similar to their previous incarnation, the Town Halls will be open to the entire NEAR ecosystem. Hosted by Marcus Ribeiro, a member of NEAR Foundation’s Community Team, they will be held bi-weekly — giving everyone a chance to get a firsthand look at the latest updates and exciting developments in the NEAR ecosystem. You can watch our March Town Hall here.

Earlier this year, NEAR Foundation kickstarted the Ecosystem Roundtable. Meeting weekly, the Ecosystem Influencer Roundtable is designed to enhance communication and increase accountability between major ecosystem projects, Pagoda, and NEAR Foundation. The roundtable’s regular meetings help with aligning on updates, sharing insights from the ecosystem, and discussing high-level ecosystem goals. These meetings, however, are not for decision-making purposes. 

Most recently, the Ecosystem Influencer Roundtable met at an offsite at ETHDenver. Over time, the goal is for the Ecosystem Influencer Roundtable to become more autonomous, and for the participants to work independently to collaborate, set goals and initiatives for the NEAR ecosystem, and develop their own governance structure. You can read more about the roundtable here. 

The Community Team also put out a NEAR Foundation Community Survey. The goal of this survey was to measure the ecosystem sentiment around NEAR Foundation and gather feedback on where to focus and improve efforts.The common areas for improvement that were identified were around funding, improving communications and transparency, and improving the support and engagement with the NEAR ecosystem.

Lastly, NEAR Foundation has been working on an overhaul of NEAR’s Twitter Spaces/AMAs, which showcase and highlight projects building on the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR Foundation’s Community Team is finalizing a structured process for projects to leverage NEAR Foundation’s platforms to conduct Twitter Spaces/AMAs with the NEAR Foundation team. The team encourages feedback by following up to the Spaces/AMAs with a feedback form, which is reviewed to ensure community voices are heard and the valuable feedback is put into action. NEAR Foundation has run a few of these in a test flight to refine the project, and the new process should be live by May 2023. Stay tuned on NEAR Twitter, Telegram, and Discord accounts for an announcement on this new process. 

NEAR in the press
Q1 saw a number of top news stories from the NEAR Foundation and NEAR protocol’s thriving ecosystem. The NEAR ecosystem was covered in over 400 articles across the globe in Q1, including over 15 tier 1 stories in outlets including  CoinDesk, Forbes and  Bloomberg, and 34 tier 2 stories in outlets including  Block and Cointelegraph.  

Headlines included the announcement of the Blockchain Operating System at ETHDenver, as well as coverage from many of our partnership announcements, ecosystem hubs, and progress from many of NEAR protocol’s ecosystem projects. These include Kakao Games, SlickImages (led by ex-NBA all-star Baron Davis), Recur, LedgerLive, Calimero, Few&Far and the NDC, amongst others (more details on these below).

To find out more about NEAR Foundation’s and the NEAR ecosystem’s press coverage you can check out the  monthly roundups below:

NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for January 

NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for February


NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for March

Ecosystem Highlights
Completed Raises
Q1 2023 saw several projects complete a fundraising round.

Open Forest Protocol raised $4.1 million
Calimero raised $8.5 million
Few and Far raised $10.5 million
Orderly Network publicly announced raising fresh funding at a flat token valuation of $200 million!
Ecosystem News & Community 
The NDC GWG announced the NEAR Community Treasury is now live. 5.7 million NEAR is now available for decentralized funding of grassroots initiatives through the NDC. This is a major milestone in the efforts in decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem.
DevDAO, the organization behind NEAR Developer Governance, made significant strides in fostering open discussions and development via the Community and Work Groups. They established a framework and platform for decentralized funding for developer opportunities, and distributed funding to several projects. At its core, DevDAO is an embodiment of the future of decentralization of the NEAR developer ecosystem. The roadmap includes a range of initiatives such as hackathons, virtual and in-person events, documentation, and dev support programs. If you’d like to learn how to get involved, check out this post outlining the various contribution pathways.
The NEAR Wiki Landing page has been overhauled to provide a better user experience and a more refined journey for the end user to find what they’re looking for.
NEAR DemoDay kicked off this quarter on the 15th and 16th of March. DemoDay is a full spectrum ecosystem showcase, aiming to run once a quarter, which brings projects, leaders and VCs/Funds together to showcase new projects as well as discussions of hot topics in the space and exciting developments on NEAR. It was an impactful event, garnering significant interest,  including from CoinTelegraph. DemoDay saw 64 projects registered, 22 projects presented live on DemoDay, with ten ecosystem VIP judges, including Marieke Flament and Alex Shevchenko and folks from Huobi Incubator and Pantera Capital. The recap content can be found on PitchTalk.com.
The NEAR Foundation Community Team kicked off a weekly NF Ecosystem Amplification Twitter Spaces/AMAs series to highlight the multitude of projects building in the NEAR ecosystem. ~30 projects expressed their interest in participating.
NEAR protocol is being included in CoinGecko’s Candy Rewards Learn and Earn Program. It is set to officially kick off in early April.
The Governance Forum has gone from 8,888 members at the start of Q1 to 9,329 (~5% growth in the quarter). Weekly pageviews on the forum have gone up from 82,269 (December average) to 124,445 (~51% increase). However, the number of posts are down by 15% from the previous quarter.
NEAR Social (BOS) has gone from 483 MAA at the start of Q1 to 4141 MAA as of today. (~857% growth in the quarter, ~319% growth since NEAR Day @ETH Denver)
DeFi
NEAR protocol saw a peak of $88m TVL in Q1 2023. Ref.Finance led the way for TVL on NEAR protocol, followed by MetaPool. There was, however, a 34% drop in TVL at the beginning of April as a result of the bankruptcy of Alameda, following on from the effects of FTX.
Ref.Finance launched an Orderbook built on top of Orderly. The orderbook provides a transparent, efficient, and decentralized mechanism for matching buy and sell orders on the platform, allowing users to experience a Central Limit Order Book (CLOB)-like user interface.
Spin launched Strategies, aka DeFi Option Vaults, on NEAR protocol. DeFi Options Vaults (DOVs) are instruments that simplify option investment strategies for users. The DOV automatically deploys staked assets into specific options strategies — a process entirely run by smart contracts.
Gaming
Duel Network, an innovative play-to-earn gaming project on BSC, launched their token on NEAR. By embracing NEAR’s technology and growing ecosystem, Duel Network is positioned to attract and engage users from BSC. This strategic move not only amplifies the Dual Network’s reach, but also strengthens the collaboration between NEAR protocol and other leading chains.
NFTs
EveryoneEatsEntertainment recently launched Music Feast, a decentralized label and NFT marketplace, on NEAR protocol. With Music Feast the team is aiming to bridge the gap between the traditional music industry and Web3 by utilizing high caliber talent, and simplifying the purchase process for the end user by masking the current complexities. For example, there is fiat on-ramping with auto generated non-custodial wallets. The platform launched with a NEARWEEK AMA, along with their pioneer artists AshleeBANKZ and world-renowned hip-hop icon DJWhooKid.
They are currently working with 8 artists, and others are on the way. 
Artists will release 6 NFTs per collection on a tiered system with each providing additional perks and benefits. 
The main artist drop right now is Whoo Kid, featuring Ashlee Bankz. Between Whoo Kid and ClassiQ there are an estimated 1.3 million reachable fans.
Salmon Wallet is building an all-in-one, open-source wallet with an integrated bridge, NFT marketplace, and other features. According to the project, the Source of Water NFTs work as an exclusive membership program — holding a Source of Water NFT grants a wallet perpetual free commissions on any swap/bridge/on-off-ramp. 
YouMinter launched on mainnet. YouMinter is an NFT Social platform where users can create, communicate, and build a community within a sleek UI, with effortless onboarding and usage.
Infra & Devs 
A 2022 Near Foundation grant recipient completed and launched their Rust Smart Contract Security Course. And the best part? It’s completely free on YouTube.
Welldone Studio / Welldone Wallet dropped a NEAR plugin for Remix IDE. WELLDONE Studio demoed their new plugin on April 4th, which enables developers to create and deploy smart contracts on NEAR with Remix Project, the most popular IDE on Ethereum.
Coinpanda announced its API integration with the NEAR protocol. Coinpanda is an easy-to-use crypto tax platform that supports DeFi, NFTs, and 800+ integrations.
At ETHDenver, Calimero announced the launch of private sharding on NEAR. Now anyone with minimum experience and proficiency in blockchain technology can launch their own private shard in a matter of minutes and be sure about the performance and security that is managed by the platform itself. This is facilitated by Calimero Console, a user-friendly interface that makes deploying, monitoring, and maintaining private shards a streamlined and user-friendly process.
Keypom is a tool built and recently launched on NEAR that allows anyone to create highly customizable onboarding experiences for both new and existing users. They launched a companion no-code app as well as an SDK and docs at ETHDenver. Keypom will be at Consensus, where they’ll show off trial accounts — a way to instantly sign in and start using an app with the click of a link.
NEAR Foundation, in partnership with Developer Governance, Proximity Labs and Aurora Labs, sponsored over $36,000 worth of bounties at ETHDenver, and there were a number of great submissions. There will be many more hackathons coming up this year, so be on the lookout for announcements so you don’t miss out.
Aurora released Aurora Cloud, a turnkey blockchain solution for businesses transitioning to Web3.
A Look Ahead
to Q2, the NEAR Foundation is continuing its strategic focus on similar  OKRs to Q1, including more work on the Blockchain Operating System, the continuing efforts toward a thriving decentralized ecosystem, and our Web2.5 strategy.

This NEAR Foundation Transparency Report (the “Report“) is provided for informational purposes only. The information contained herein is provided on an “as is” basis, and the NEAR Foundation makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of the information contained in this Report.

The NEAR Foundation, its affiliates, directors, employees, and agents, shall not be held liable for any errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the information provided herein. NEAR Foundation reserves the right to update, modify, or amend any information contained in this Report without prior notice. This Report is not intended to provide financial, investment, legal, tax, or any other professional advice. Readers should consult with their own professional advisors before making any decisions based on the information contained in this Report.
NEAR and WEMADE Team Up to Accelerate Mainstream Web3 Adoption
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 23, 2023
The Near Foundation is excited to announce that it’s partnering with WEMADE, one of the largest publicly-listed gaming companies in South Korea. A leading game developer in South Korea for over 20 years, WEMADE will be vital in Near’s push toward mainstream adoption of Web3.

Near and WEMADE will support the development of blockchain apps in Korea as well as other markets. Near and WEMADE will also jointly work on mutual brand awareness, and collaborate on a number of Web3 community events and business opportunities.  

“WEMADE and Near share a similar vision of enabling and accelerating the mainstream adoption of blockchain to create a future of nearly limitless potential use cases and benefits for all of us across many different areas of our daily lives,” said Shane Kim, CEO, WEMIX and Vice President, WEMADE. 

“In order to achieve that vision, we must make it easier, faster, and more cost-effective for developers to onboard off-chain apps, organizations, and startups, and are confident that Near is ideally positioned to do so.”

Onboarding end users and developers into Web3
The partnership will do much to encourage developers, including game designers, to build on the Near. Beyond co-hosting community events like offline hackathons and boot camps, Near and WEMADE will work together on mutual brand awareness, invest in research and collaboration on cross-chain initiatives, and be on the lookout for potential Web3 business opportunities and founders. 


A renowned leader in game development, WEMADE is at the forefront of a generational shift as the gaming industry pivots to blockchain technology. Its WEMIX subsidiary is building an experience-based, platform-driven, and service-oriented mega-ecosystem — one that will give users everywhere access to a wide array of easy-to-use Web3 apps and experiences.

“We’re thrilled to be partnering with WEMADE as part of our shared vision towards a decentralized future for the gaming industry,” said Commenting on the partnership, Marieke Flament, CEO of the Near Foundation. “By joining forces, we are confident in our ability to accelerate the development of cutting-edge solutions that meet the growing needs of gamers and developers in the Web3 space.”

The Near-WEMADE partnership marks the second major Web3 gaming partnership from the Near Korea Hub. The first, a partnership with BORA — the Web3 GameFi platform of Kakao Games — will also be vital in accelerating the mainstream adoption of Web3.  


Dragonfly Capital Joins NEAR Validator Advisory Board
COMMUNITY
January 18, 2021
For anyone following the validator set over the weekend, you may have noticed that a new validator called “dragonfly.poolv1.near” quickly climbed into the top three position in the active set. This is linked to Dragonfly Capital, whose managing director Haseeb Qureshi will join the NEAR Validator Advisory Board (NVAB) this week.

Dragonfly Capital is a global investment firm which focuses on blockchain and has an active presence across both the US and Asian markets. They are known for their research and highly technical team.

Dragonfly will play a key role in the governance and evolution of NEAR through its next phase of adoption as part of the NEAR Validator Advisory Board, which is a select group of professional validators and infrastructure providers who participate in the technical governance of NEAR. Because NEAR is a fully decentralized and community-controlled protocol, the validators help make decisions on the evolution of the technology and network. Starting with the MainNet launch in October 2020, NVAB members work with the engineering teams on testing, feedback, requests for new features, and market research. 

The NVAB is also working closely with NEAR to develop the Smart Contract-based delegation for the staking of NEAR tokens, a unique innovation among Proof-of-Stake blockchain protocols. Delegation via smart contracts—rather than at the protocol level, as most PoS blockchains do—will offer more flexibility for the validators, allowing them either to produce their own validation contract or to configure staking rewards that optimize for particular positions, like the size of delegation or a certain lockup timeline. This enables a dynamic marketplace between validators and stakers while also securing the protocol. 

Haseeb shared a post about why he and his team are excited about NEAR and joining the NVAB. As a horizontally-scalable, sharded PoS blockchain, NEAR will offer solutions to many of the pain points facing other protocols today, such as network congestion, limited transaction throughput, prohibitively high gas costs, and barriers to mainstream usability. 

NEAR is a layer-one protocol designed to interoperate with Ethereum and which addresses some of the current challenges posed by the overwhelming volume of DeFi activity. NEAR can securely absorb and extend the development activity of a layer-one like Ethereum much like other layer-two solutions do, but with all the security and governance guarantees of an advanced layer-one protocol. 

NEAR’s emphasis on usability means that developers don’t need to learn a new programming language to be able to build on the network. The combination of accessible, native WASM-based runtime alongside EVM compatibility on the horizon, as well as a fully decentralized, trustless cross-chain asset bridge called the Rainbow Bridge, means that building on NEAR is accessible to any developer, whether porting apps from Ethereum, or builders just getting started on blockchain programming. (Not to mention other usability-enhancing features such as human-readable addresses and contract-level developer rewards.) 

The success of any smart contract platform depends not just on the quality of the tech, but also the community. We’re very excited to welcome Dragonfly Capital to the NVAB and the wider NEAR community as we forge the path to true mainstream crypto adoption. Don’t forget to check out their research post for more details on why Dragonfly is excited about NEAR’s future.


NEAR Digital Collective Legal Framework
COMMUNITY
March 21, 2023
To help accelerate real-world value creation in the NEAR ecosystem, the NEAR community has launched the NEAR Community Purpose Trust (for ease referred to in the remainder of this post as the ‘NEAR Community Treasury’). The NEAR Community Treasury is intended to serve as a decentralised treasury for the NEAR ecosystem that will allocate funds to support various grassroots initiatives.

The launch of the NEAR Community Treasury has been championed by the Governance Working Group (‘GWG’), a group focussing on ecosystem governance initiatives as part of the NEAR Digital Collective (‘NDC’). The NDC is an ambitious grassroots initiative that brings together users, projects, stakeholders and partners of the NEAR ecosystem to promote self-governance, aiming to empower the ecosystem to collectively make decisions on everything from funding to elected representatives and more. It is a significant step towards an even further decentralised network.

The NEAR Community Treasury leverages an innovative legal framework that builds on work that has already been done utilising Guernsey Special Purpose Trust frameworks elsewhere in the industry. The NEAR community hopes that this framework should help to bring much-needed clarity to participants in decentralised autonomous organisations (‘DAOs’). Below for discussion purposes only is a high-level summary of some of the key features of the NEAR Community Treasury framework.

What is the NEAR Community Treasury and how is it structured?
A trust is a mechanism for holding assets so that the legal title to those assets is separated from the beneficial interest in those assets. One or more trustees are appointed as the ‘legal’ owners of the assets in question, and those trustees are bound by various duties and obligations to hold those assets either:

 for the benefit of one or more beneficiaries; or in certain cases,
to further one or more specified purposes (with a trust of this nature typically referred to as a ‘Purpose Trust‘).
The NEAR Community Treasury is a type of Purpose Trust, specifically a Guernsey Non-Charitable Purpose Trust (a ‘GNCPT’). A GNCPT is brought into existence when assets are transferred to one or more trustees (the ‘Trustees‘), and those trustees enter into a written settlement of trust (the ‘Trust Instrument’) with another party termed an enforcer (the ‘Enforcer‘) which determines how the assets subject to the trust will be administered.

The Trust Instrument sets out the duties and obligations of the Trustees and Enforcer, and also the various purposes that the NEAR Community Treasury was created to support. The NEAR Community Treasury is governed by Guernsey law at its inception (although this can be changed by the Trustees with NEAR community consent). The Trust Instrument has been drafted to deliberately minimise the trust that the NEAR community needs to place in the Trustees, the Enforcer and any centralised administrator. The NEAR Foundation has no control over the NEAR Community Treasury, nor any ownership right or interest in respect of any assets held in the NEAR Community Treasury.

The Trustees are required to administer the NEAR Community Treasury in accordance with the terms of the Trust Instrument and are also subject to various fiduciary duties which require them to, for example, always act honestly and in good faith and exercise their powers in furtherance of the purposes of the NEAR Community Treasury. The Trustees are also subject to a duty of care which requires them to employ the care, skill and diligence of a prudent person of business when administering the trust assets. Both the Trustees and Enforcer are also required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in connection with their roles.

The Enforcer has a fiduciary duty to enforce the NEAR Community Treasury in relation to its non-charitable purposes and has a proactive oversight function, monitoring the Trustees and their administration of the NEAR Community Treasury to ensure they are complying with their duties and obligations. The Enforcer has the power to request information and documentation from the Trustees; and also has the power to remove one or more Trustees in certain circumstances (more on this below).

The Trustees can use the assets in the NEAR Community Treasury for any transaction or arrangement that furthers one or more purposes of the NEAR Community Treasury, provided the transaction and/or arrangement has been approved by the NEAR community. 

At this stage, the NEAR community has not yet launched any on-chain voting mechanism (although there are various potential implementations in development). The Trust Instrument therefore also provides the Trustees with a limited power – subject to various constraints – to use assets in the NEAR Community Treasury for any transaction or arrangement that furthers one or more purposes of the NEAR Community Treasury without requiring approval of the NEAR community (the ‘Limited Trustee Power‘). Once an on-chain voting mechanism is launched by the NEAR community, this Limited Trustee Power will fall away permanently.

The Trust Instrument was reviewed by a set of skilled external and community legal counsel in Switzerland, the US and Guernsey. A group of lawyers from the NEAR community also reviewed the Trust Instrument, alongside various members of the GWG. The Trustees are required to make a copy of the Trust Instrument available to the NEAR community, and a copy of the signed Trust Instrument will be stored on IPFS (and this post will be updated with the IPFS link once it is confirmed by the Enforcer). 

The NEAR Foundation does have any control over, or ownership of, the NEAR Community Treasury

What are the purposes of the NEAR Community Treasury?
The purposes of the NEAR Community Treasury are set out in Schedule 3 of the Trust Instrument, and consist of two types of purpose:

     (i) Core Purposes: to support and promote the operation and/or development of the NEAR Blockchain and/or associated ecosystem. These Core Purposes cannot be changed by anyone, although new Core Purposes can be added by the Trustees with NEAR community consent.

     (ii) Subsidiary Purposes: there are various Subsidiary Purposes including to stake the majority of the Trust Fund that is NEAR denominated, and to consider and if thought fit approve funding proposals from the NEAR community. Subsidiary Purposes can be added or removed by the Trustees with NEAR Community consent.

Any assets held in the NEAR Community Treasury must therefore be used by the Trustees to support one or more of these Core and/or Subsidiary Purposes.

Who are the Trustees and Enforcer of the NEAR Community Treasury?
The initial Trustees are the following individuals from the NEAR ecosystem:

Alina Tustanovska  
Carolin Geier 
Rahmat Albariqi (Riqi) 
Rune Bentien 
Antonio Morales Cordoba 
The initial Enforcer is Francesco Paolo Piatti, who is an experienced lawyer in the Web3 space. The initial Trustees and Enforcer were selected by the GWG, a grassroots community group that has been working on various ecosystem governance initiatives. The process the GWG used to select the initial Trustees and Enforcer is set out in detail here.

How do the Trustees and Enforcer operate?
There must always be a minimum of 3 Trustees (although there is no upper limit specified in the Trust Instrument). Trustees can be appointed and/or removed by the Enforcer at the direction of the NEAR community. The Enforcer also has the power to remove any Trustee where that Trustee has committed a breach of a purpose or a breach of fiduciary duty. Conversely, the Enforcer can be removed by the Trustees at the direction of the NEAR community.

Each Trustee has one vote on any proposal. Trustees are required to disclose any direct or indirect conflict of interest in respect of any proposal, and by default cannot participate in any vote where they are conflicted. The Trust Instrument prohibits the same person occupying the role of a Trustee and Enforcer simultaneously.

The Trustees and Enforcer are entitled to be paid a reasonable remuneration for performing their respective roles (and the NEAR community has control in respect of this remuneration on the basis that, to the extent any remuneration is put in place that the NEAR community disagrees with, the NEAR community can remove the Trustees and/or Enforcer).

What assets are held by the NEAR Community Treasury?
At the outset, the NEAR Community Treasury will hold 5,662,061 NEAR that was donated to the NEAR Digital Collective initiative by the NEAR community (along with a nominal amount of USDT that was donated by the NEAR Foundation, consistent with its legal purpose, as part of the administrative set-up process). The NEAR Community Treasury wallet can be viewed here.

The Trustees will administer this initial trust property as a proof of concept, enabling the NEAR community to establish how to best utilise this GNCPT framework and demonstrate that the NEAR Community Treasury framework can be used effectively. Moving forward, the NEAR Foundation (as well as other NEAR ecosystem participants) can make further contributions of assets into the NEAR Community Treasury based on the needs of the ecosystem.

How will the NEAR Community Treasury operate in practice?
The Trustees provided NEAR addresses, as well as Twitter and Telegram handles (but not physical addresses), in the Trust Instrument. They are able to make decisions as they would normally in the absence of the trust (e.g. via real-time written communications like Telegram or Signal) without having to adopt any additional formalities or bureaucratic processes.

The Trustees control the NEAR Community Treasury multi-sig wallet and can execute transactions that support one or more of the NEAR Community Treasury’s purposes from this wallet, with a majority of Trustees required to approve/sign any transaction. Any such transaction or arrangement must support one or more of the NEAR Community Treasury’s purposes and would require NEAR community consent; however as discussed above until the NEAR community implements some form of on-chain voting mechanism, the Trustees have the Limited Trustee Power to allocate funds from the NEAR Community Treasury without requiring the consent of the NEAR community. Any such allocations would still need to support or further one or more of the Core and/or Subsidiary Purposes.

Based on the GWG’s proposed framework, the NEAR community’s intention during this initial period is for the NEAR Community Treasury to receive funding proposals just from the 3 ecosystem grassroots DAOs – being the Developer DAO, Marketing DAO and Creatives DAO. The NEAR Community Treasury’s scope will likely be widened moving forwards as determined by the Trustees and the NEAR community, potentially becoming the primary treasury/capital allocation node in the ecosystem.

Based on input from the GWG, the Trust Instrument envisages that the NEAR community will develop an on-chain voting mechanism that leverages proof of personhood technology (i.e. technology that can verify there is an identifiable, unique individual controlling a NEAR account).

Once the NEAR community launches this on-chain voting mechanism, the Limited Trustee Power will fall away permanently. The NEAR community will then be able to put forward and approve funding proposals, and also direct the Trustees to take various actions including:

fulfill grant requests;
add Core Purposes and add/remove Subsidiary Purposes;
appoint/remove Trustee(s) and/or Enforcer; and
change the NEAR Community Treasury’s governing law.
What are the benefits of the NEAR Community Treasury structure?
Participant Liability
One of the most significant legal issues currently facing DAOs and other decentralised initiatives is participant (or token-holder) liability. Recent legal developments (for example in connection with the CFTC’s enforcement action against Ooki DAO) have only heightened the uncertainty and risks in this context, particularly with respect to DAOs being classified as ‘general partnerships’ or ‘unincorporated associations’ and creating potential joint and several liability exposure for participants. This means participants potentially being held individually liable on an unlimited basis for their own actions, and/or the actions of the entire DAO/initiative, and/or the actions of certain participants.

It is the hope of the NEAR community that the NEAR Community Treasury may help to mitigate these potential participant liability issues:

The Trustees undertake (in their capacity as Trustees) certain activities and actions (e.g. holding treasury, making grants) that might otherwise expose ecosystem participants to potential liability. Other ecosystem participants do not undertake these activities and instead exercise oversight over the Trustees and Enforcer.
When the Trustees (a) act (as they are required to do) in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Instrument and their fiduciary and statutory duties as trustees; and (b) also make it clear to any third parties that they are acting in their capacities as trustees of the Community Treasury, then the liability of each Trustee should be limited to the value of the assets held in the NEAR Community Treasury.
In addition:

The Trustees are indemnified under the Trust Instrument, meaning that they will be compensated for any liability/losses suffered by them in carrying out their duties as Trustees from the assets held in the NEAR Community Treasury.
The Trust Instrument also makes it clear that the Trustees will not be liable for any losses arising to or suffered by the assets in the NEAR Community Treasury (save for any losses arising in respect of a Trustee’s breach of trusts arising from their own fraud, wilful misconduct or gross negligence).
Off-chain activities
Without a formal legal structure, if a DAO/decentralised initiative wishes to participate in an off-chain transaction or arrangement then typically individual participants would be required to enter into the relevant transaction/arrangement in their individual capacity (and/or some other affiliated legal person); exposing them to potential liability. While the NEAR Community Treasury is a ‘legal arrangement’ and so not itself a ‘legal person’ (i.e. it does not have a separate legal personality from the Trustees, unlike for example a limited liability company), the Trustees are able to interact with the off-chain world – in their capacity as trustees – in a similar way as other entities (for example, opening a bank account). 

Tax
Certain activities undertaken by DAOs, particularly holding a DAO treasury, can create complex tax consequences for participants (especially in the absence of any clear guidance). One critical risk is the possibility of tax liability arising in connection with DAO activities being attributed to (and so payable by) individual participants.

The NEAR Community hopes that the NEAR Community Treasury may mitigate that risk for participants by ensuring the relevant activities are being undertaken by the Trustees (in their capacity as Trustees). In addition, as the NEAR Community Treasury does not have any Guernsey resident beneficiaries or Guernsey-source income, it should not be liable to tax in Guernsey nor be required to make any on-going tax or reporting filings. 

Efficient and trustless
Unlike many other alternative DAO legal ‘wrapper’ or ‘proxy’ structures, the NEAR Community Treasury does not rely on a centralised administrative body to be brought into existence or maintain its legal standing – the execution of the Trust Instrument by the relevant parties is all that is required. As mentioned above, there are also minimal operational formalities, meaning the Trustees can make decisions as they would normally (i.e. as if the trust wasn’t there). 

Under Guernsey law, there is also significant flexibility regarding who can serve as a Trustee or Enforcer, including no requirement for a locally-registered professional trustee/trust company to serve as a trustee. To the extent any disputes were to arise in connection with the NEAR Community Treasury, these would be heard and ultimately determined by the courts in Guernsey.

What happens if the NEAR Community Treasury is terminated?
The NEAR Community Treasury is irrevocable and can continue to exist for as long as there are Core and/or Subsidiary Purposes to support. The NEAR community could however direct the Trustees to transfer all of the NEAR Community Treasury assets to another trust (provided such a transfer supported one or more Core and/or Subsidiary Purposes).

The Trust Instrument also contains various contingencies in the event all of the NEAR Community Treasury’s Core and/or Subsidiary Purposes cease to exist and/or one or more Trustees undertake a transaction or arrangement that is in breach of one or more Core and/or Subsidiary purposes. In such circumstances, the Enforcer (acting reasonably and in good faith) has the power to direct the Trustees to transfer the NEAR Community Treasury assets to a new trust or otherwise deploy them for the benefit of the NEAR community.

Some closing thoughts
The NEAR community hopes that the NEAR Community Treasury framework will enable the NEAR community to benefit from a decentralised treasury in a risk mitigated manner. For more information about Guernsey Non-Charitable Purpose Trust frameworks, a template Guernsey Special Purpose Trust Instrument will shortly be hosted on the NEAR Foundation GitHub (and this post will be updated to include the relevant link, once available).


Disclaimer: Nothing in this article/post should be construed as legal, tax or investment advice. This post might not reflect all current updates to applicable laws, regulations or guidance. Any templates or documentation referenced in this post are made available on a non-reliance basis and the authors do not assume any responsibility for their contents or any consequences of their use. The authors disclaim any obligation to update this post, and also reserve the right to make any changes to this post without notice. The subject matter of this post deals with an emerging and uncertain area of the law and there are no guarantees (and none are given, of whatsoever nature, by the authors or otherwise) that the NEAR Community Treasury framework will effectively mitigate any of the risks identified above. In all cases persons should conduct their own investigation and analysis of the information in this post. Please consult with a reputable lawyer in your jurisdiction for any questions or concerns and before making use of any templates or documentation referenced in this post. Neither this post nor the NEAR Community Treasury constitutes, or is indented to constitute, the offer or sale of any security or token.
NEAR Foundation Strengthens Governance with New Talent
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 13, 2022
NEAR Foundation is happy to announce its newest high-level executive appointments. The Foundation has hired Mary Beth Buchanan as a Strategic Advisor, while Sheila Warren and Jason Warner have joined as participants of the NEAR Foundation Council. 

Buchanan  brings over three decades of legal and business expertise at the intersection of federal law enforcement, global interagency cooperation, corporate compliance, digital assets, and emerging regulatory frameworks. She was the first woman and youngest person to be appointed to the position of U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania and since then has served as President, Americas and Global Chief Legal Officer for Merkle Science. A member of the Board of Directors of the Cardano Foundation, Buchanan has been at the forefront of the digital assets industry since 2013 while she was a partner at Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner leading the firm’s Digital Currency Team. 

Buchanan is among the brightest minds in crypto compliance, regulatory, and legal matters. She has prosecutorial experience and conducted ethics and reputational risk assessment for the UN. Her career has also focused on internal investigations, corporate compliance, SEC enforcement matters, congressional investigations, and digital currency work in private practice. 

Sheila Warren, who you might have seen featured at NEARCON, currently serves as the inaugural CEO of the Crypto Council for Innovation, the premier global alliance advancing crypto innovation worldwide. She co-hosts “Money Reimagined,” a CoinDesk TV show and podcast, is an advisor to the Filecoin Foundation, serves on the Steering Committee of the DeFi Education Fund, and is an early stage investor across the Web3 ecosystem. 

Before joining the NF Council, Warren founded the blockchain and digital assets team at the World Economic Forum, where she served as a member of the Executive Committee. As the Deputy Global Head of the Forum’s Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, she oversaw strategy across 16 countries to advance the adoption of new technologies in the global public interest. 

Last, but certainly not least, Jason Warner is the former CTO of GitHub and currently the Managing Director at Redpoint Ventures. Before joining GitHub, Warner was Vice President of Engineering at Heroku, the world’s leading PaaS and one of the largest cloud computing providers in the world. He is an active speaker, writer, and advisor on cloud computing, technology and leadership. 

Welcoming the appointments, Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, said: “Changing the world does not happen without great people working together, and we are thrilled to be welcoming this calibre of leader on board as we continue on our goals to put usability at the heart of a global shift towards Web3. Mary Beth, Sheila, and Jason have collectively spent decades creating the infrastructure necessary for society to be ready for this momentum and shift – we could not be more excited to have them join us on our mission.”
These appointments are huge wins for NEAR Foundation and the ecosystem at large. Welcome to the NEAR family, Mary Beth, Sheila, and Jason!
Orange DAO Selects NEAR Foundation as Web3 Startup Partner
COMMUNITY
March 31, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that Orange DAO, a crypto collective created by Y Combinator alumni for backing Web3 startups, has selected NEAR as its preferred layer 1 blockchain. 

In turn, NEAR Foundation will invest $15 million into Orange DAO to help support the founders who are building Web3 companies on the NEAR blockchain.

“We are thrilled to have been selected by some of the brightest minds in the world as the preferred layer1 chain on which Orange DAO members will want to build,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “We know that community-driven innovation benefits everyone, and this partnership is simply another example of our mission in practice.”

Bringing startup accelerator expertise to NEAR
Although Y Combinator is not formally involved in the project, Orange DAO is currently made up entirely of YC alumni, including NEAR co-founder Alexander Skidanov. After starting with just a few dozen YC alums, Orange DAO has expanded in recent months to include over a thousand YC founders. 

One of the world’s leading startup accelerators, YC has been integral in developing some of the fastest-growing and most valuable tech brands. Based in Mountain View, California, YC has backed over 3,300 companies for a combined valuation of $600B, including Airbnb, Stripe, Dropbox, Coinbase, Opensea, Twitch, and Reddit. 

YC alums created Orange DAO as a venture structure to both identify and support young crypto startups currently building the future of the Web3 ecosystem. 

Orange DAO is not the first foray into Web3 by YC founders. Back in 2017, hundreds of alumni created the Pioneer Fund, a more traditional venture vehicle, to back Web3 projects. By contrast, Orange DAO operates as a decentralized autonomous organization, using blockchain tech to help multiple users make collective decisions. 

Why Orange DAO chose NEAR
Unlike other blockchain networks, NEAR offers Web3 software developers an extremely fast, secure, and low-cost protocol—by way of its unique Nightshade sharding approach—for building decentralized applications (dapps). NEAR’s protocol technology, as well as its bridges to other blockchains, and developer ecosystem proved highly attractive to Orange DAO’s founders. 

The Orange DAO team will leverage NEAR’s strengths to back past, present, and aspiring Y Combinator founders. The DAO will do this by helping founders apply and get accepted into YC; providing pre- and post-YC funding; as well as mentoring founders and helping where possible with recruitment and customer acquisition. 

NEAR Foundation’s funding will vest over four years, and the Foundation will also provide time and resources to support YC founders. 
NEAR in Hong Kong: Create Without Limits
COMMUNITY
March 29, 2023
NEAR is making a debut in Hong Kong as a Platinum Sponsor for the Hong Kong Web3 Festival, which will be held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre on April 12-15, 2023. This four-day event, hosted on five center stages across an area of about 9,000㎡, will see over 10,000 attendees, 300 distinguished industry speakers, about 100 Web3 projects, community partners and media partners around the world congregate to network, share, and learn through high-level content and panel discussions. 

Web3 Festival will bring together the world’s brightest minds, top Web3 projects and leading venture capital firms presenting content-rich discussions and topics centered around Web3. Hong Kong regulatory representatives will also dive into and interpret the latest digital asset regulation policies. Top industry leaders such as CZ of Binance, Illia of NEAR Protocol, Juan of Filecoin, Dr. Xiao Feng of Wanxiang and Yat Siu of Animoca Brands are all expected to speak at the Festival.

Join us on April 14th 9:30am to 12:30pm (GMT+8) at NEAR in HK Meetup — a half-day mini summit with a full schedule of keynote speeches and panels to explore topics on NEAR as a BOS, Web3 social, NFTs, DeFi and more. The summit is hosted as one of the official side stages as part of the Web3 Festival at the Convention Centre. A number of remarkable NEAR speakers will join us in Hong Kong and share their insights around NEAR’s ecosystem development. While we are finalizing the details of the event, the list of guests below are expected to speak at the summit:

Illia Polosukhin – Co-Founder of NEAR Protocol and CEO of Pagoda
Robbie Lim – Head of BD, NEAR Foundation
Louis Liu – Founder & CEO, Octopus Network
Amos Zhang – Founder of MetaWeb Ventures and Early Contributor of NEAR Protocol
Bowen Shen – Co-Founder, Proximity Labs
Kenny Qi – Founder & CEO, Sender Wallet
Cox Zhang – Founder & CEO, Connect3
Ran Yi – Co-Founder of Orderly Network
Arjun Arora – COO,  Orderly Network

Register for NEAR in HK Meetup

From April 12th – 15th, you can visit the NEAR booth during Hong Kong Web3 Festival and mingle with NEAR projects, community members, and other builders from the ecosystem.

To participate in the NEAR in HK Meetup, please register via Eventbrite and obtain a single day pass to the HK Web 3 Festival on April 14th (valued at $100 USD). The space is limited and open registration is available for the first 200 qualified registrants only. The remaining tickets will be distributed via various community giveaways and online events to our most loyal community members. 
Near and RECUR to Make Building on Web3 Easy for Web2 Brands
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 23, 2023
Near Foundation is excited to announce a new integration with RECUR, a  Web3 platform helping major enterprises launch innovative, digital collectible experiences. With RECUR Builder, an enterprise-grade SaaS, the company is making it easier than ever for projects of all sizes to seamlessly build, scale, and integrate Web3 experiences into their existing products, marketing stack, video games, and more. 

By using RECUR Builder, Web2 brands and other projects can develop on-chain branded experiences that enable the purchase, collection, and resale of digital projects and collectibles, like NFTs and beyond. Beloved brands like Paramount, Hello Kitty, and Nickelodeon currently work with RECUR to create chain-agnostic, bespoke experiences that make NFTs accessible through user-friendly experiences. 

Near’s partnership with RECUR is part of its Web2.5 strategy, functioning as a bridge between the Web2 and Web3 worlds. This new integration will enable Near users to purchase, trade, and engage with RECUR’s extensive roster of licensed intellectual property, along with participation in upcoming mints and the option of ecosystem partnerships and NEAR-native mints.

Building and scaling Web3 experiences
RECUR prides itself on helping businesses and creators to build, distribute, and manage Web3 experiences at scale with enterprise-level tools. With a polished and super user-friendly interface, first-time buyers can purchase NFTs from major global and upcoming brands alike. With a Near Wallet, users can buy NFTs using credit cards, Apple Pay, Google Pay, and crypto (BTC, ETH, USDC). 

 “We are delighted to partner with Near to bring more Web2 companies into the world of Web3, supporting enterprises and fans with future-proof solutions via the RECUR platform,” says Zach Bruch, CEO of Recur. “We have always been passionate about building the future of web3 for everyone, and building alongside partners like Near is a crucial part of that journey.” 

Marieke Flament, CEO of Near Foundation, noted that this partnership with RECUR is part of a larger commitment to making Web3 more accessible for everyone. 

“[We] are excited about partnering with RECUR to empower brands and fans as they invent and explore new digital experiences,” says Flament. “Finding ways to make Web3 more user-friendly is a key part of unlocking the magic of this new chapter, and we believe this partnership with RECUR helps us to do that for many around the globe.” 
NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for March
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 31, 2023
The NEAR ecosystem is ending March on several extremely high notes, from partnerships and community events to unfolding initiatives. 

NEAR strengthened its India and Southeast Asia presence, widened its gaming footprint — and of course, introduced the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). 

Here are all the key happenings from a massive March.

NEAR unveils itself as the Blockchain Operating System (BOS)
Coindesk broke the biggest news of March, announcing NEAR as the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) at ETHDenver. NEAR will now be the common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences in an industry-first category. The BOS makes NEAR the entry point for both web2 and web3, enabling easy web3 access and navigation for users and devs.

The BOS adds composable frontends to NEAR’s tech stack, simplifying onboarding and enhancing development from a collection of over 1,800 components. In only a few lines of code, builders from any ecosystem can create custom components and benefit from quick onboarding to help construct their web3 applications.

“The iOS provides developers a place to show their app in front of billions of users, and it gives them all the services and the infrastructure underneath to build,” NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin told CoinTelegraph. “We’re trying to give the platform underneath and let developers build.”

An alpha version of the BOS is now available for both users and developers to test at alpha.nearpages.wpengine.com.

Near at ETHDenver Highlights: the BOS, NEAR Day, and more
Exciting times for NEAR at ETHDenver, with a capacity crowd and jam-packed NEAR booth as the ecosystem engaged with builders from around the world. NEAR’s presence included a range of, including OnMachina on Web3 storage, Keypom for Web3 onboarding, and the Sweat Economy. Not to mention the BOS being first introduced to the world by Illia.

Let’s also not forget the over 1,000 people in attendance for NEAR Day, a one-day mini-summit for all things NEAR. Other big highlights out of ETHDenver included premium NFT platform Few & Far raising $30 million, the very first session unveiling the BOS, and Flowcarbon’s new carbon-market ecosystem built on the NEAR blockchain.

Arpit Sharma joins as Managing Director for eastward expansion
March also saw the appointment of Arpit Sharma as the Managing Director for India, South East Asia, and the Middle East regions. His focus will be on expanding the NEAR ecosystem’s presence in those regions, bringing a wealth of experience and expertise from a wide array of industries, solutions, and use cases.

Sharma’s web3 experience extends from the metaverse and NFTs to supply chain tracking and stablecoins. He sees enormous potential in regions and countries like India and the Middle East, believing that Web3 can be used to connect, collaborate and change the world. Regional hubs in India, Vietnam, and Korea should see a huge boost with Sharma on board.

Korean web3 gaming in focus with BORA and WEMADE 
Next, NEAR set its sights firmly on the Korean gaming sector as Yahoo! Finance reported a new partnership with BORA gaming, the first of two such agreements. A subsidiary of METABORA, the two will explore new frontiers of web3 adoption in Asia and beyond. Both entities are affiliated with Kakao Games and bring a wealth of IP and gaming expertise into NEAR’s orbit.

Together, NEAR and METABORA will work to identify global IP-based web3 joint ventures. This means leveraging BORA’s existing gaming catalog and future development capabilities to bring fun and interactive web3 games to the world. And per Business Insider, the NEAR Korean Hub should be an enormous beneficiary as the partnership progresses.

On top of that, MarketWatch reported the new relationship between NEAR and global web3 gaming company WEMADE, also based out of South Korea. The partnership will leverage WEMAKE’s over 20 years of experience in the gaming industry, as well as its WEMIX 3.0 mainnet for advanced blockchain services.

“We’re thrilled to be partnering with WEMADE as part of our shared vision towards a decentralized future for the gaming industry,” added Marike Flament, CEO of NEAR. “By joining forces, we are confident in our ability to accelerate the development of cutting-edge solutions that meet the growing needs of gamers and developers in the web3 space.”

Popp’s web3 customer engagement platform launches on NEAR
Finally, small-to-medium-sized business owners are about to get exciting new tools for customer engagement using web3 and NEAR. Popp, a web3 customer engagement solution-as-a-service, announced that it will launch its white-label service exclusively on NEAR.

Popp lets businesses set up micro-tasks called “Popps,” which reward users when completed. Actions like retweets and reviews are rewarded with Popp’s native token that can be redeemed for vouchers, discounts, experiences, and more.

March was certainly a whirlwind month for NEAR, with the BOS taking the ecosystem into the next era of web3 usability. And not to mention NEAR Day at ETHDenver being a rousing success. NEAR will continue to forge ahead at full steam in April, but if we missed anything that happened in March the community should hear about, don’t hesitate to let us know!


Announcing NEAR Protocol’s MainNet Genesis
COMMUNITY
May 4, 2020
Update 20200806: See the end of this post for an update on project status.

NEAR’s mission is to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. The NEAR platform is a key piece of fulfilling this because it provides decentralized storage and compute that is secure enough to manage high value assets like money or identity and performant enough to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of the Open Web in their hands.

Today, we are thrilled to announce a major step towards the fulfillment of that mission: Genesis for the NEAR Protocol MainNet has occurred and the network has already produced a million blocks. 

This release, called “MainNet: POA”, is the first major release on the path to NEAR being the first fully sharded, fully operational proof-of-stake blockchain platform to run an open MainNet. This release represents the beginning of a multi-phase rollout of the platform over the upcoming months, as detailed in The Road to MainNet and Beyond and described in brief below.

The significance of MainNet: POA is that developers can now create production end-user-facing applications atop the smart contract platform running on the NEAR Protocol blockchain and the state of these applications is guaranteed to persist going forward, which crucially differentiates it from a TestNet release.

Because this is the POA release, there are some limitations to the functionality of the applications and the tooling of the platform on MainNet so it is intended for early adopters and sophisticated developers. NEAR’s TestNet, which runs the same code as MainNet but without any restrictions, allows developers to freely build and test their applications until they are ready for final deployment.

The following sections will cover exactly what this release contains and how it fits into the larger timeline of upcoming releases. It will help anyone — whether a developer, validator or potential end-user — understand how their experience and functionality are impacted by each of the steps on the way to the final Open MainNet release.

Contents:

About NEAR
Phases for Launching NEAR
Getting Started

About NEAR
Technically speaking, NEAR is a decentralized application platform built on top of a public, sharded, proof-of-stake blockchain. More importantly, NEAR is the backbone that powers the final stage of blockchain’s evolution, called the “Open Web”. In brief, you can think of blockchain technology as spanning three generations:

Open Money: Bitcoin showed the power of creating a global currency that anyone could interface with but there were limited opportunities to use this because of constraints on the performance of the blockchain and the limited computing layer on top of it.
Open Finance: Ethereum showed the power of expanding the financial primitive of Open Money by building a computing platform which could spawn new tokens and enable applications to permissionlessly access them. Despite lacking the performance or usability for general consumer adoption, Ethereum still proved that significant innovation could be achieved by making it easy for developers to combine financial building blocks to create valuable new products.
Open Web: When any data can be shared and composed between applications just like the financial primitives of Open Finance, the set of possible new business models and applications expands exponentially. No blockchain yet has been able to meet the requirements for this, however, because it must be performant enough to meet enormous demand, low cost enough to justify itself and usable enough by developers and consumers to allow user experiences on par with today’s web.
NEAR was built specifically with this final stage in mind. It doesn’t just provide the performance and usability upgrades which are necessary to drive the global adoption of Open Finance, it also has the scalability and low cost necessary to drive the even larger vision of the Open Web. 

No blockchain of similar scope or sophistication has yet been released into full production. With the launch of NEAR’s Genesis Block, which officially started the MainNet blockchain on April 22, 2020, the project took the first major step along its own journey to having a fully decentralized, community-governed MainNet.

The ensuing rollout process, which will take place over the next several months, involves three distinct phases, as described below.

Phases for Launching NEAR
Generally speaking, projects like NEAR must build 2 key elements:

Below the surface: The underlying technical (blockchain) layer which provides the bare metal networking, virtual machine and data storage
Above the surface: The tooling and functionality which allows developers to easily build user-friendly applications.
Many blockchain projects have optimized for shipping the technical layer first but that means developers can’t actually build useful applications until smart contracts are implemented.

The goal of NEAR’s approach is to reverse the order of these two things, so the chain’s application-facing functionality is almost entirely in place from day 1, allowing developers to build actual production-ready apps even while the underlying chain infrastructure is still being progressively decentralized.


See each of the sections below for a more detailed investigation of the phases and their implications for key stakeholders.

Phase 0 – MainNet: POA

This initial phase of MainNet, which began with the recently implemented genesis block, allows builders to create production applications with guaranteed state preservation but is subject to restrictions on transfers and caveats that early tooling will be in a raw form.

These are the implications of MainNet POA:

Validators: The chain will initially be run by 4 nodes and a permissioned set of validators will be added during the course of this release. Inflation (and corresponding block rewards) will be set to zero so there is no dilution of stakes.

Patches or Rollbacks: Any issues experienced by the network, whether due to bugs or security, will be patched or rolled back as necessary while preserving the appropriate state for applications.

Developers: Because token transfers during this phase are restricted but both new account creation and app deployment require tokens, developers will need to work with the NEAR team to set up their accounts and implement their deployments. This process is similar to getting an API key. Contract Rewards for developers are enabled, so they can already earn 30% of the gas fees that are paid for the use of their contracts once deployed.

End Users: End users will be able to use applications on the network (as long as they don’t involve transfers of NEAR tokens between accounts) because using gas is not restricted. If these apps require NEAR accounts, this will need to be accomplished with some workarounds that can be coordinated with the team.

TestNet: Unlike MainNet, during this phase TestNet is full-featured and unrestricted so developers can test the full functionality of their applications in preparation for release during this or the later phases of MainNet.

Transitioning to Phase 1: This phase is ended and the next phase begins when the initial validating set from the Foundation hands off validation responsibility to a new set of validators sourced from within the community.

Phase 1 – MainNet: Restricted

In the Restricted phase, most of the changes occur below the surface so there will be few noticeable changes to developers or end-users. App developers will still be able to build, test and deploy production-ready applications on MainNet, just like during the POA phase. Tooling will continuously improve and end-users can still pay for gas to use applications but transfers of NEAR tokens are still restricted.

These are the implications of Restricted MainNet:

Validators: Instead of a small set of controlled nodes (as in the POA phase), the chain will be run across a large set of whitelisted validating nodes but inflation (block rewards) will still be inactive. This is a chance for validators to test-drive their nodes and fine tune their delegation setups. Though transfers are restricted, developers and end users will be able to delegate their tokens to validators for participation in the staking process. 

Patches or Rollbacks: Because the chain will be run across a large set of validators, any bug- or security-related rollbacks or major patches will need to be coordinated with this group. The chain is still expected to maintain full security and uptime.

Developers: As with the POA phase, because token transfers are restricted and new account creation and app deployment require tokens, developers will need to work with a NEAR team to set up new accounts and implement their deployments. This process is similar to getting an API key. Contract Rewards for developers are enabled, so they can earn 30% of the gas fees that are paid for the use of their contracts once deployed.

End-Users: As with the POA phase, end users will be able to use applications on the network (as long as they don’t involve transfers of NEAR tokens between accounts) because using gas is not restricted.

TestNet: As with the POA phase, testnets that run alongside this MainNet will provide full functionality for applications as well as advances in the underlying technology and tooling.

Transitioning to Phase 2: This phase is ended and the next phase begins when a sufficiently large set of token holders votes that the conditions for successful open MainNet are fully in place and the network is ready to become completely open and unrestricted. This is similar to the approach used by Cosmos.

Phase 2 – MainNet: Open (Community-Governed)

The final phase of MainNet puts everything in place. The network is fully decentralized because it is being run on a large validator set which can be permissionlessly joined by anyone with enough stake. Applications have no restrictions on their functionality and NEAR tokens are free to be transferred. Developers can permissionlessy create accounts and deploy applications.

These are the implications of this Community-Governed (Open) Mainnet:

Validators: Anyone with sufficient stake (or delegated stake) can participate in running the network. Lockups will begin unlocking as normal in this phase.

Patches or Rollbacks: As with any properly decentralized network, updates to the chain are entirely subject to the decentralized governance process and adoption by validating nodes. This means that any bug- or security-related rollbacks or patches will need to be handled entirely through governance and, as with any decentralized network, no single party can provide guarantees about the performance or operational characteristics of the network.

Developers: Developers will be able to permissionlessly create accounts and deploy full-functionality applications. These activities will require tokens, which can be permissionlessly acquired via any mechanism available “in the wild”. Contract Rewards for developers are enabled, so they can earn 30% of the gas fees that are paid for the use of their contracts once deployed.

End Users: End users will be able to permissionlessly create accounts and use any applications that exist on the network.

TestNet: As before, TestNet will be full-featured and full-functionality. For more information on specific sub-networks and the anticipated forward-looking release cycle, refer to the Road to MainNet and Beyond post.

Ongoing Evolution: As a permissionless, open source network, anyone can contribute to the codebase. Future improvements and growth will be ultimately determined by the emergent will of the community and its adoption among validators. Financial support for ongoing development will be provided by the network’s Foundation Reward.

Getting Started
Everyone who has worked on getting NEAR to this point is extremely excited to see the community get more involved in every aspect of the network’s development, operation, and ecosystem development.

During this initial phase of MainNet, here are several ways to get your hands dirty:

Developers: Because TestNet is full-featured, you can build your app as normal! Check out the docs quickstart for information about how to do this and ask questions in the chat. If you are ready to deploy to MainNet, register for the Developer Program.

Validators: Whether you expect to validate with your own stake or receive delegation, you can start test-driving your setup and sign up for staking programs to participate in any upcoming ones. Similarly, if you are interested in purchasing tokens, be sure to sign up for the token list to hear news of any opportunities to do so.

Interested Contributors: If you run your own community and we can help out or if you are interested in helping out directly, learn about our community programs or ask questions in the chat. 

Startup Founders: NEAR is a supporter of the Open Web Collective, a protocol-agnostic community of startup founders who are focused on building on the decentralized web. They provide education, networking and support during this process. Learn more and join at https://openwebcollective.com.

Business Leaders: If you are curious about how to integrate with NEAR or whether it might be a good fit for your business needs, reach out to [email protected].

Update 20200806:
We are currently in Phase 0, where the NF is running the network’s nodes.Phase I involves a transition to a decentralized group of third party validators.

This occurs in several steps:

The validators (who have been participating in the incentivized TestNet for months now) are promoted to MainNet and given accounts there.
At the same time, tokens are distributed to the recipients who should receive them so they can delegate these tokens to the validators. This activity will take some time because there are many recipients
Once the network has been determined to be sufficiently stable (which could be a week, or it could be more), the NF will spin down its nodes and Phase I officially begins.
The first and second steps are expected to begin by the end of August (though it is an engineering timeline and thus subject to change).The third step will depend a lot on what we see there, plus it has some dependencies on the ecosystem of validators, custodian partners and their customers, so it’s not really appropriate to put a date on it.

The transition to phase II requires the validators to signal their choice that they are ready to remove transfer restrictions on the network. This is similar to what Cosmos did. The NEAR team can’t determine when exactly this will occur. It might occur almost immediately after Phase I officially begins or it may occur long after — it is entirely up to the validators (and the stake which delegates to them).

As a final note, which you can read in the blog post https://pages.near.org/blog/near-mainnet-genesis/, there is no network inflation before Phase II, so anyone who is not participating in delegation or staking prior to Phase II is not missing anything other than the opportunity to test-drive your delegation and vote to advance to phase II.
An Open Invitation to the Terra Community
COMMUNITY
May 18, 2022
The NEAR Foundation strives to create a stable environment for developers, founders and community members to realize their vision of an Open Web world.

During this turbulent period, many projects building on the Terra network are now facing an uncertain future.  The NEAR Foundation is extending an open invitation to anyone currently building on Terra to join the NEAR community, and make this vibrant ecosystem their new home.

As part of this invitation, the Foundation has put together a sizable relief fund for projects from the Terra ecosystem to make the switch. 

Why choose NEAR? 
The NEAR blockchain has simplicity at its heart. NEAR uses common coding languages like WebAssembly (WASM) in addition to Rust to build its smart contracts. Terra also uses Rust to write smart contracts, making the switch simple. 

NEAR was built by developers for developers. As a result, there are class-leading resources for developers to begin building on NEAR Protocol. These include NEAR.University’s training and certification programs—more than 5,000 developers have been trained—and $45M+ in project grants within the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR community also has extensive documentation on building and deploying on the network, and much more.

Below is a range of places to get started: 

Developer Tools – NEAR CLIs, SDKs, APIs and more.
Code Examples – Explore how Rust and AssemblyScript are being deployed.  
Developer Bounties – Bug fixes, developer grants and other incentives. 
Grants Program – More than 800 projects funded and over $45 million awarded.
Office Hours – Talk to expert developers about your project. 
Education – Learn, watch and build.  
Ecosystem – Explore the more than 500 projects already being built in the NEAR ecosystem. 
If you’re interested in finding out more about how the NEAR Foundation team can help you make the switch, please email [email protected] with the subject line, “Terra Migration”, and one of the teams will respond within 24 hours. 
What is the NEAR Digital Collective?
COMMUNITY
January 27, 2023
What is the NEAR Digital Collective?
The NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) is an ambitious project that brings together users, projects, stakeholders and partners of the NEAR ecosystem to create a radically new way of governing itself.  

By creating a framework that allows any member of the network to have a say in how NEAR is run, the NDC’s goal is to combine transparency, collective decision making, evolving governance models, and self-determination in a completely new way.  

The NDC plans on doing this by helping to create the NEAR Constitution, a unifying document that enshrines the ideas of self-governance and decentralization into the core of how the NEAR ecosystem works. 

Why is this important? 
The NEAR ecosystem is made up of over 1,000 projects, regional hubs, funding nodes, infrastructure providers, and more than 20 million wallets. That’s a lot of people. The NDC was established to help all those involved take an active role in how NEAR evolves. 

Whether that’s how funding is allocated, how elections take place, or who represents the mosaic of interests that make up this thriving and diverse ecosystem. The NDC wants to help everyone have a voice, and for those voices to be recorded on chain.   

How does it do that? 
The NDC is helping develop a system of governance. Once in place, it will allow people to vote on a wide variety of issues, elect members to different governing councils, and even make amendments to the constitution itself.

The essence of the NDC brings this radical framework to life, and allows the community to then engage and take part in actively shaping the future of NEAR. 

In its current stage, the NDC is working on a governance structure that includes the following sections: 

Voting Body – This is every active near account, as qualified by the governance framework
House of Merit – A group of experienced community members appointed by members of the ecosystem to represent them during votes and key decisions. 
Council of Advisors – Advisors appointed to help shape the direction of the House of Merit.
Transparency Commission – members of the community appointed to ensure checks and balances, are in place and upheld. 
Community Treasury – Members of the House of Merit with support from the Council of Advisors help facilitate voting on how community funds are allocated. 
You can find more information on the above here. 

This is a work in progress, and is currently overseen by the Governance Working Group, or GWG. This is a collection of community members working on refining the models of governance that will help everyone have their say.  

The Collective and the GWG invites anyone to share and discuss ideas. All the details on how to do that can be found here. 

What is the scope of the NDC? 
While the constitution and governance models are key, the NDC will also help to shape, define and deliver the following: 

NEAR Constitution. 
Create and deploy local and global on-chain decision-making. 
Create and deploy a repository of local and global on-chain journals, logs, and minutes. 
Establish governing bodies, their operations, powers, and what checks and balances each one needs.
Create and maintain a community treasury with a complete set of operating procedures and safeguards.  
Create and maintain Community Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and Dispute Resolution protocols. 
Create and deploy a communications strategy to ensure the work carried out by the NDC and GWG is easy to access. 
A strategy to help the community find, access and use the NDC. 
Help develop and deploy a DAO Governance Model
 Facilitate growth of the NEAR ecosystem more broadly.
What role does the NEAR Foundation play in the NDC? 
The Foundation is a partner and contributor to the NDC. It supports the work being carried out by the Collective, and will ultimately look to hand over its funding role to the community once it is ready to do so. 

Who is working on NEAR Digital Collective? 
The Collective is made up for members of the NEAR ecosystem. Some are former members of the Foundation, others are founders of projects, and others still are long term users and supporters of the blockchain and the projects that are built on it. 

Feel free to reach out to any of the team leads. 

Why is Decentralization Important? 
Decentralization is a term that has become synonymous with blockchain, but has its origins as far back as the French Revolution in the 18th century. 

Decentralization then, and now is the process by which the activities of an organization, particularly those regarding planning and decision making, are distributed or delegated away from a central, authoritative location or group.

This is important because, as any student of history will tell you, when power becomes overly centralized, the opportunity for abuse increases. In 2022, members of the blockchain community experienced first hand what happens when centralized authorities abuse their power. 

Members of the NEAR Community believe that the goal of decentralization is to improve on what came before. It believes that increasing transparency and democracy creates a fair and more equal community for everyone. 

But to get there requires a commitment to a process. A process that will need to evolve and adapt to the needs of the community, and for that community to take part in shaping it.

Decentralization is vital for the long term health and sustainability of any collection of people and ideas. The NDC is how the NEAR community is trying to achieve that.   

How do I get involved? 
Any member of the NEAR community is free to join any of the following workgroups:. 

Constitution
Governance & Tech Governance
Legal
Community Engagement
Communications
Get started by completing the Governance Working Group (GWG) onboarding process.

Or if you’re looking for a deeper dive into how all of this works, you can see the Overview page. 
The continued evolution of the NEAR Foundation
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 21, 2023
The NEAR Foundation’s vision is one of an Open Web, where users have true ownership of their data and assets, and are empowered to participate in value creation, ownership and governance opportunities in permissionless systems. The ultimate goal is to enable billions of users to participate in an Open Web. 

To help achieve this, the NEAR Foundation strategy has been two-fold – one of top-down to attract prominent Web2 organizations into Web3, the other of bottoms-up to empower the ecosystem through the fostering of grassroots community – all of this being powered by the Blockchain Operating System and NEAR Protocol. The primary goal has been to grow users (MAU) so that more people can experience what Web3 can bring to them. Great progress has been made, with over 2.6m Monthly Active Users on NEAR protocol driven by this strategy, with NEAR protocol now as one of the top 5 most active blockchains driven by innovative partnerships such as Cosmose AI.

Over recent months, there have been discussions between NEAR Foundation leadership and the NEAR Foundation Council (NFC) on the strategic direction of the Foundation and the best way the Foundation can continue in its evolution to support the NEAR ecosystem in achieving this broader vision.

As part of this, Marieke Flament has elected to move into a council-only position to support the continued evolution of the Foundation. Chris Donovan, General Counsel of the Foundation, will step up as CEO and will work closely with the NFC and the broader ecosystem on the Foundation’s evolution plans. Chris has been with the Foundation for over a year since joining from Outlier Ventures and brings a wealth of experience in web3. In addition to her role on the NFC, Marieke will also stay on as a strategic advisor to Chris until the end of the year. There are no changes to the current strategy of the Foundation.

In a statement, Mona El Isa, Chairperson of the NFC remarked: “Marieke has been pivotal in all the incredible progress the NEAR ecosystem has made over the last two years, bringing NEAR to be one of the most active ecosystems in web3 and progressing the journey of the ecosystem towards decentralization. Amidst many critical industry and world events, Marieke has set the NEAR Foundation and the NEAR ecosystem on a solid pathway. I am excited to welcome Chris into his new role – I could think of no one better placed to continue the Foundation’s mission and wish him all the success.”
MetaBUIDL Launch Highlights
COMMUNITY
September 2, 2021
TL:DR 
MetaBUIDL is a global hackathon hosted by NEAR with a $1M prize pool.
NEAR powers a world where people control their money, power, and governance.
MetaBUIDL ushers in an era of “zero finance” where distributed computing invisibly powers all of our activities.
Check out talks from NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, Atelier Ventures founder Li Jin, Richard Muirhead,Managing partner of Fabric Ventures and more! 
MetaBUIDL is here! NEAR’s $1,000,000 competition for hackers and community members designed to kickstart the next generation of projects that will power the decentralized economy. 

Taking place over 17 days online and across nine hack nodes including San Francisco, New York, Bogota, Lisbon, Kano, Nigeria, Mukachevo and Kyiv in Ukraine and two locations in China, MetaBUIDL is a front seat to what happens next.

As part of our kick off we invited a host of speakers to explore everything from the passion economy, NFTs and the rise of the metaverse. 

Illia Opens the Show with the Open Web 
But before all that, NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin introduced us to the open web, a “world where people control their money, power and governance.”  

Illia also explored how NEAR has been a part of that journey, and why, most importantly, blockchain is just one part of this future. In order for the open web to really succeed, there needs to be a focus on shared ownership, proper incentivisation, and a roadmap to a more inclusive web. 

➡️  Watch his talk here

When the Ownership Economy and the Passion Economy Collide
Next up, Illia took a deep dive into the passion economy with Li Jin, the founder and general partner of Atelier Ventures. 

The passion economy is a place in which “people are leveraging different platforms and tools in order to make a living from their non-commoditized passions and skills,” said Jin.  

This comes in contrast to the gig economy, which was all about monetising pre-commoditised tasks and services. The gig economy was a step forward in online work in that it gave more autonomy and freedom to workers, but fell short of allowing people to be their own boss and decide what work they wanted to do.

The two discussed the tensions between the creators in the web2 world and the owners of those platforms, and how web3 services, when done right, could create a symbiotic relationship whereby the platform and creator work collaboratively: bringing incentives for the two groups together for mutual benefit. 

➡️  Watch their talk here

VCs and What Comes Next in Crypto 
Next up we invited Richard Muirhead, managing partner at Fabric Ventures to explore crypto through a VC lens, the trends that are emerging and where the industry might head next. 

“There’s this new wave of software weaponized to deal with the concept of ownership. Assets have become accessible, divisible and ownable through software,” says Muirhead. 

One particular area of interest Muirhead has been focusing on is the pay to earn platforms like Axie Infinity and Yield Good Games and what happens when NFTs, gaming and opportunities to own a slice of the metaverse are combined.

When looking to the future, Muirhead sees finance’s role in crypto fading into the background. 

“We’re heading to a world of zero finance – where transactions become invisibly embedded in all of our activities online. If you have a passion for a particular piece of content on YouTube, or preserving a particular part of the environment, finance should be in service of all of those activities. It should be invisible under those activities and be in the service of them.”

Muirhead believes social tokens and social movements in the crypto space are rapidly becoming indistinguishable from financial opportunities and sees a lot more growth ahead.  

   ➡️  Watch their talk here

NFTs and the Broader Digital Economy 
Lastly, but certainly not leastly check out our talk between Maria Shen, Partner of Electric Capital and Brady Dale, a journalist for The Defiant.  

In this talk, Shen explores the evolution of crypto from programmable money, to programmable assets to where we are today; the explosion of financial use cases across the crypto sphere, in particular the marriage of NFTs and DeFi. 

“While NFTs and DeFi have become interlinked, there’s still something missing,” says Shen. “There’s no liquidity for NFTs.” The solution? Fractionalisation. 

“Fractionalisation is probably the best solution we’ve seen so far that solves this solution. “Take something that’s non-fungible, make it fungible via ERC-20s, and then allow them to plug into the DeFi stack,” says Shen. 

The two explored examples of projects looking to unlock the next wave of NFTs. You’re not going to want to miss some of the projects they talk about. 

➡️  Watch their talk here

And if you’ve missed out on the chance to be part of the hackathon, it’s not too late!

Join MetaBUIDL
About NEAR
NEAR Protocol is a high-performance blockchain platform for developing Open Web applications. Easy to build on and easy to use, NEAR will bridge the users of today’s internet to the blockchain-based web of the future.

NEAR Protocol is built by a world-class team of engineers and entrepreneurs, including world champions of ACM-ICPC, Google Code Jam, and TopCoder Open. NEAR is backed by top VCs such as A16Z, Pantera Capital, Electric Capital, Dragonfly Capital, Coinbase Ventures, Blockchain.com, and Baidu Ventures.
NEAR Foundation Transparency Report
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 12, 2022
With this report, the NEAR Foundation would like to expand the consistent and frequent communication with the NEAR community, to contribute to the long-term health and viability of the ecosystem.

As a result, the Foundation is publishing its first transparency report and committing to quarterly reports moving forward.

The purpose of the Foundation, per its articles of incorporation is promoting and developing new technologies and applications, especially in the fields of open and decentralized software architectures, to enable innovation to benefit people around the world. A dominating but not exclusive focus is set on the promotion and development of the NEAR Protocol and related technologies as well as the promotion and support of applications using the NEAR Protocol. 

To deliver on its purpose, the Foundation is organised around 3 core areas of focus awareness, support and governance. 

Below the Foundation shares details of how it allocated funding in Q4 2021 and Q1 + Q2 of 2022. This will include the rationale for these decisions and insight into future plans.

In totality, the Foundation deployed $540M in fiat and tokens during these three quarters. The allocation of these funds has helped the ecosystem while it grew at an unprecedented rate.

The number of accounts on the NEAR Protocol has grown from 1.1 million at the beginning of 2022 to 15.6 million accounts at the end of Q2. 
The number of weekly active developers deploying on mainnet has grown from 250 to 1,500 per week.
DAOs have surged from 50 to 700 and the number of projects deployed on NEAR has increased from 100 to 750.
The NEAR Foundation in Q4 2021 
In Q4 of 2021, the NEAR Foundation announced the launch of an $800 million ecosystem fund. The fund was to be split into four broad groups:

$350M – Proximity DeFi Grants – to help projects in the space of financial innovation within the NEAR Ecosystem.
$250M – Foundation Grants – to support projects building on NEAR, through direct investment and grants.
$100M – Startup Funds – to decentralize capital deployment into dedicated investment funds within the ecosystem.
$100M – Regional Funds – to establish physical hubs in key regions around the world to provide a local presence.
The below goes into further detail about how much was allocated, how much was committed and what projects were included in the allocation. 

Category	Announcement	Committed
Proximity DeFi Grants	$350m	$350m
Foundation Grants	$250m	$133m
Startup Funds	$100m	$18m
Regional Hubs	$100m	$33m
Total Ecosystem Fund	$800m	$534m
Charity & Education		$6m
Total Capital Deployed		$540m
*Grants awarded in NEAR valued at $3.33 on 30th June 2022 
Proximity DeFi Grants
Allocation: $350 million 

Committed: $350 million 

Why DeFi? 

DeFi is one of the cornerstones of a healthy blockchain ecosystem. The provision of financial products and services helps users learn the tools necessary to safely navigate a Web3 ecosystem, as well as drive innovation.

DeFi helps other projects grow by facilitating quick, safe, and easy ways to move and swap currencies in and out of projects as they see fit. While the Foundation cannot deploy DeFi primitives itself, it can help support the creation of funds that can. Proximity forms that function inside the NEAR ecosystem. 

Proximity is a research and development firm supporting projects building decentralized finance (DeFi) applications on NEAR and Aurora through grants, advisory services, and developer support. 

Proximity’s allocation decisions are independent of the Foundation. 

Ecosystem Grants 
Allocation: $250 million 

Committed: $133 million 

Foundation Grants cover a broad range of investments from grant allocation to direct investment and are primarily focused on the following verticals: Infrastructure & Integrations, Gaming & Entertainment, NFTs, and DAOs.

The Foundation has come up with specific strategies and has deployed capital within each vertical.

Infrastructure and Integrations – Infrastructure is a catch all term for key parts of the ecosystem that are needed to help unlock mass adoption. These include things like wallets, bridges, oracles, zk technologies, privacy tools, and improved tools for developers. Integrations with the NEAR network are crucial to bring more users into web3. The following partnerships have been instrumental in accelerating NEAR’s connection with the rest of web3.
Key projects:Aurora, Pagoda, Calimero, Switchboard, Octopus, Brave, Coinbase Earn, BitGo, USDT, Fireblocks, Token Terminal, Copper
Gaming / Entertainment – The web3 gaming space is still wide open. The first iteration of web3 games proved consumer demand. Now, there is room to iterate on long-term sustainable models, introduce permissionless composability, and create new forms of NFTs in addition to games that are primarily or even fully on-chain.
Key projects:Armored Kingdom, SWEAT, Endlesss, Niche, playEmber, eFuse
NFTs –  NFTs on NEAR is a large and extremely important opportunity in which NEAR has a unique tech advantage as NEAR NFTs are applications that are programmable. NEAR has a chance to be the first mover in true, long-term, sustainable and unique NFT use cases.
Key projects:Few & Far, Mintbase, Paras, Seatlab, Stack Sports 
DAOs – We believe NEAR has the strongest no-code, easy to use, DAO tech stack that is already helping to decentrally govern key ecosystems and hundreds of millions of dollars. We will facilitate DAO use cases in investing, gaming, NFTs, sustainability, and science. 
Key projects:AstroDAO, OrangeDAO, SailGP, Flamingo DAO, Unchain Fund 
Startup Funds
Allocation: $100 million 

Committed: $18 million 

The Foundation does not believe it should be the sole distributor of capital to developers and entrepreneurs. Decisions should not be made in a vacuum with just one centralized organization.

In order to further decentralize capital deployment, the Foundation has allocated grant funds to MetaWeb,  MOVE Capital, Stealth Capital, Open Web Collective who are focused on funding projects of the NEAR Ecosystem, each with their own thesis. 

The Foundation has committed $18 million thus far to these funds that have subsequently made 50+ allocations into NEAR ecosystem projects. 

MetaWeb, another NEAR native investment fund, has raised $30m from Sequoia, in addition to NF. MetaWeb have made 33 investments to date, including Niche, Orderly, Above.Land, and Sender Wallet.
MOVE Capital is a NEAR native investment fund that has raised $13m from Accomplice and DCG, in addition to NF. MOVE has made 15 investments to date, including Tonic, Calimero, Few & Far, and Sweatcoin.
Stealth Capital is an investment fund for founders, and brings a wealth of experience supporting the development of projects on Solana and Polygon, as well as NEAR. 
Open Web Collective is a blockchain accelerator and investor backing the builders of the multi-chain, decentralized web. Open Web Collective’s approach to supporting founders is hands-on, user-centric, and analytical. 
​

In addition to these, additional funds will be announced in the coming months, focused on specific verticals such as Sustainability, Sports & Entertainment, and Web2 → Web3.

Collectively the NEAR Foundation believes these funds will help realize its vision of bringing a billion users to Web3 in a healthier, more decentralized way. 

Regional Hubs 
Allocation: $100 million 

Committed: $33 million 

To be global, we have to be local.

As part of NEAR’s ambition to reach a billion people, the Foundation believes we need hubs around the world to connect with people where they are – with local events, in local languages, to find the best people wherever they are and forging partnerships with local organizations.

The NEAR Foundation has outlined seven regional hubs as part of its roadmap. So far, three have launched: 

Ukraine Hub (in exile in Lisbon) 
Kenya Hub (Sankore) 
Balkans Hub
In addition to these hubs, the Foundation will soon be announcing Vietnam and India hubs and will be launching additional hubs in South Korea and the US.

The Foundation has chosen these locations based on a variety of factors, including web3 adoption, # of developers, regulatory environments, and available capital.

Funding, Treasury & Decentralisation 
In addition, the NEAR Foundation has received $560m from the following key backers: Tiger Capital, FTX, a16z, Circle, Dragon Fly, and many others.

The Foundation has been very conservative in how the funds have been managed. Exposure to non-NEAR assets has been limited, with over $0.5b of funds raised held in fiat in Swiss bank accounts. This strategy helps ensure that the Foundation maintains sufficient resources throughout the market downturn. 

This approach has left the Foundation in an extremely strong position to continue to distribute funds to high quality projects for the foreseeable future.



The Foundation is on a continued decentralization journey, and as part of this mandate working on its promise to put tokens in the hands of the community. 

The community has come together in response to Illia’s talk from ECC in Paris to implement an ecosystem-wide self-governance treasury called the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC).

​​The purpose of the NDC is to further decentralize NEAR’s ecosystem governance, distribute more of the Foundation’s token holdings to the community and move decision-making on-chain in order to make our community more resilient, transparent, and fair.

A Community Working Group is now forming to take the next steps to launch and implement the NDC framework. This process is led and shaped by the community. Building better, sustainable self-governance at a global level starts with the community.

Every voice matters and we believe the process now being launched can serve as a model approach across Web3 for the creation and implementation of truly decentralized, on-chain governance.

The Road Ahead
NEAR’s mission is to:

Remove every barrier for Web3 creators, by creating an ecosystem that is uniquely simple, safe, scalable and sustainable.

The NEAR Foundation is committed to this mission. We will continue to support the ecosystem, drive awareness to NEAR and web3, and continue to educate regulators around the world.

The Foundational will continue to invest and deploy capital in the key verticals mentioned above: infrastructure, integrations, gaming / entertainment, NFTs, and DAOs

In addition, the Foundation will continue to decentralize and deploy capital into additional ecosystem funds and regional hubs that are dedicated to the ongoing health of the NEAR ecosystem.

As part of this journey, we are also committing to releasing quarterly transparency reports moving forward to show the NEAR community where capital is deployed and why. This will also include performance of the largest investments, grants, funds, and hubs

For any questions or feedback, please reach out to [email protected].

All of these efforts are to allow you to create without limits. 

We believe in a world where creativity is no longer held back by technology.

A world without limits.

Thank you!
NEAR Transparency Report: the State of Staking
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 21, 2022
As part of the Foundation’s commitment to transparency, each week it will publish data to help the NEAR community understand the health of the ecosystem. This will be on top of the quarterly report, and the now monthly funding reports. 

You can find the quarterly reports here.

You can find monthly reports on funding here.  

This week, the Foundation is focusing on the state of staking in the NEAR ecosystem. 

The state of staking, as of Friday 18th November 2022
At the time of writing, there is 469 million NEAR staked, which equates to approximately 42% of the total supply, or 56.5% of circulating supply. 

The staking total is spread across 131 validators, which is up on last month’s total validator number of 126, a four percent increase in the decentralization of the network. 

The seat price – the amount of NEAR required to be eligible for staking has fallen precipitously. From 100,000 NEAR in October to just 20,000 NEAR in November, this means securing the network has become more accessible than ever before. The Foundation expects the number of validators to grow significantly to approximately 300 by the end of this year, as NEAR Foundation starts to delegate to Stake Wars winning participants.

This will continue as the protocol deploys its roadmap. In 2023, for example, the number of validators will continue to climb to a maximum of 400. You can read more about the road map here. 

Staking Distribution 
Of the 131 validators, eight validators hold 33% of the total staked balance, representing 154 million $NEAR. A total of 15 validators, hold 50% of the total staked balance, and 116 validators hold the other 50% of the total NEAR available. A stake of 33% is the stake that can halt the network, according to Pikespeak. 

Distribution	Validators	Staked
0-33%	8	154m
33%-50%	7	74m
51%-75%	21	124m
76%-100%	95	116m
131	469m
To improve decentralisation, the Foundation, along with the ecosystem is continuing to improve the breadth and depth of the validators, and actively encourages stakeholders to delegate to validators outside the top 15. 

Why are validators important? 
The NEAR network is decentralized, meaning that multiple people collaborate in order to keep it safe. We call such people validators.

In order to make sure that all the transactions in the network are valid, i.e. that nobody is trying to steal money, the validators follow a specific consensus mechanism.

Currently, there are a few well-known consensus mechanisms to keep a blockchain working correctly and resistant to attacks. NEAR Protocol uses a version of Proof-of-Stake, particularly Thresholded Proof of Stake.

In Proof-of-Stake, users show support to specific network validators by delegating NEAR tokens to them. This process is known as staking. The main idea is that, if a validator has a large amount of tokens delegated is because the community trusts them.

Validators have two main jobs. The first is to validate and execute transactions, aggregating them in the blocks that form the blockchain. Their second job is to oversee other validators, making sure no one produces an invalid block or creates an alternative chain (eg. with the goal of creating a double spend).

If a validator is caught misbehaving, then they get “slashed”, meaning that their stake (or part of it) is burned.

In the NEAR networks, an attempt to manipulate the chain would mean taking control over the majority of the validators at once, so that the malicious activity won’t be flagged. However, this would require putting a huge sum of capital at risk, since an unsuccessful attack would mean slashing your staked tokens.

Why is decentralization important? 
Staking is not only about the rewards, it is the basis for security and stability of the NEAR Protocol. To avoid centralization, split your stake between smaller staking pools instead of putting everything in the largest one.

Community members like Zavodil Validator have created excellent alternatives to NEAR’s official explorer, embedding metadata from the active staking pools to help you choose which Validators to Stake with. Also, consider joining the #staking channel on https://near.chat and ask questions!

These reports will be published each week, and cover different aspects of the ecosystem. 
NEAR Foundation and Sail GP Elevate Mobile Fan Engagement with The Dock
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 20, 2023
SailGP and NEAR Foundation are embarking on a daring journey where sports meets blockchain. SailGP’s The Dock platform is ready to make waves and redefine fan engagement in both sailing and sports at large. After its maiden voyage as a web-based platform on June 13th, The Dock is now ready to drop anchor with the launch of the new mobile app.

The Dock is SailGP’s free loyalty program that brings fans closer than ever to the sport and will now be available in both Apple and Google Play Stores. And by leveraging the NEAR blockchain, users of The Dock will be able to claim unique rewards and digital assets using Web3 to engage sports fans like never before.

Not to mention that The Dock is powered in part by Oracle, making the triad of SailGP and NEAR an excellent representation of building bridges between Web2 and Web3. 

The Dock: A revolution in Fan Engagement
The Dock is an immersive loyalty platform designed to reward and engage sports and sailing enthusiasts globally. The platform — and now mobile app — gives fans a chance to create personalized accounts, engage with unique and exclusive SailGP content, and earn points redeemable for exclusive rewards. 

With offerings ranging from VIP access to SailGP events and signed merchandise to once-in-a-lifetime experiences with teams and athletes, The Dock is every fan’s passport to an interactive way of engaging with their favorite SailGP athletes and teams. The platform essentially encourages fans to interact more, and in doing so earn more. 

With each interaction —± through videos, stories, behind-the-scenes content, quizzes, surveys, and polls — fans earn points that propel them closer to becoming a SailGP Champion. The accumulation of points unlocks new levels, each promising a unique set of exclusive benefits, enhancing the overall SailGP experience.

The Dock and NEAR Protocol: A synergistic partnership
A standout feature of The Dock is its fusion of Oracle’s CrowdTwist platform with the NEAR Protocol, symbolizing an industry-first partnership that bridges Web2 and Web3. This collaboration showcases how traditional and decentralized technologies can come together to revolutionize fan engagement in sports.

Through the Dock’s ‘Season Pass’, fans can link an existing NEAR account or create a new one. This paves the way for exciting blockchain-based rewards, including digital collectibles commemorating their progress. Fans can also trade these digital collectibles for limited-edition collectibles, adding another layer of engagement and excitement.

“Data is at the heart of SailGP — from the mid-race decisions made on the water to the league’s continued innovation around fan engagement,” said Rob Tarkoff, EVP of customer experience at Oracle. “We’re excited to support their newest CX initiative, The Dock, as they redefine their approach to the fan experience.”

SailGP’s journey with Oracle and NEAR
Since its inception in 2019, SailGP has harnessed the power of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to expand from a five-team, six-event startup to one of the fastest-growing sports leagues in the world with ten teams competing in 12 events throughout 2023 and 2024. Oracle has stepped up as the Title Partner for the inaugural Los Angeles Sail Grand Prix. Scheduled for July 22 and 23, it’s a thrilling new addition to SailGP’s 12-event global calendar for Season 4, which kicks off in Chicago on June 16.

“Oracle’s cloud technology is at the heart of everything we do at SailGP, and this partnership extension reflects the power and results of our collaboration,” says Warren Jones, chief technology officer, SailGP. “We have no doubt Oracle will take our fan and athlete experience to even greater heights in the seasons to come and The Dock is a great example of this.”

With the launch of The Dock’s mobile app, this exciting world of interactive sailboat racing, fan engagement, and blockchain rewards is now just a tap away. Anyone can download the app and embark on their journey to become a SailGP Champion, while also exploring the new fandom possibilities offered by the blend of Web2 and Web3 technologies.

NEAR’s mission is to push the boundaries of the Web3 world, create experiences that allow everyone to engage with decentralized technology, and foster partnerships that provide real-world utility for blockchain. Whether you’re immersed in the NEAR ecosystem or a sports enthusiast intrigued by the intersection of blockchain and sports.

The Dock promises an exciting glimpse into the future of fan engagement and loyalty platforms while bridging the gap between Web2 and Web3 with Oracle and NEAR. 
Download The Dock mobile app today on the Apple App Store or Google Play and get started on your interactive journey.
Near Partners with BORA, Web3 GameFi Platform of Kakao Games
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 6, 2023
Near is excited to announce a new strategic partnership with BORA, a Web3  gaming subsidiary of METABORA. Near and BORA will support each other in spreading local brand awareness, invest in research and collaboration on cross-chain, host events, and generate Web3 opportunities in Korea. 

An affiliate of Kakao Games and its parent company BORANETWORK, BORA is focused on game development and blockchain-based gaming ecosystems. Its mobile gaming titles include Friends Popcorn, Friends Town, and Friends Shot. 

“We are thrilled to be working with Near and welcome their expertise, knowledge and network as we aim to transform the world of Web3 gaming,” said Vincent Lim, a CBO of BORA. “Together with Near we will not only explore cross-promotion opportunities, but also seek future collaborations on IP-based game development that will lead to mass adoption and give us the competitive edge we need to position ourselves as leading players in the web3 gaming space.”

Since the launch of Near’s Korean Hub in November of 2022, BORA has been steadily building up awareness throughout South Korea, while focusing on Web3  innovation, business development, education, and talent. The hub is led by entrepreneurs Scott Lee and Ben Kang — both influential figures within South Korea’s growing blockchain community.

“One of the big ambitions of the hub  is  to tap into the country’s active gaming community, and to  bring  amazing projects and creators to the Near ecosystem.” said Robbie Lim, GM, Partners & International at Near. “ The partnership with BORA is our first major win – and a big step forward for NEAR as it accelerates its ambition to become the go to layer 1 for the Web3 gaming community.” 
NEAR in April: Sweatcoin, Kenya Regional Hub, and More
COMMUNITY
April 28, 2022
Spring is in swing, and things haven’t slowed down a bit for the NEAR ecosystem and community. In April, NEAR cemented exciting new partnerships, expanded its global footprint, and introduced dramatic new platform enhancements.

NEAR Foundation’s partnership with Sweatcoin and the NEAR Regional Hub launch in Kenya are two such developments. April was also a month full of blockchain events, with NEAR appearing at Paris Blockchain Week Summit and DevConnect.

From meeting new friends to enabling tomorrow’s movement economy, here’s everything you need to know about NEAR in April.

Sweatcoin builds the Movement Economy on NEAR
During the Paris Blockchain Week Summit, NEAR announced a partnership with Sweatcoin, the London-based move-to-earn project for incentivizing healthier living. The Sweatcoin app’s native SWEAT token and infrastructure will be built atop NEAR’s rapid, secure, and infinitely scalable blockchain.

Sweatcoin signals a radical shift in the incentivization of health and fitness, rewarding users for moving with the SWEAT token. These tokens can then be redeemed, spent, or traded in a new Open Movement Economy enabled by the NEAR blockchain.

“The inherent issue with traditional cryptocurrency is that you have to use your own money,” says Oleg Fomenko, Co-founder of Sweatcoin. “While SWEAT will be available to purchase, the key difference is that for everyday users, you invest your steps, which we hope is going to encourage people around the world to want to be more active. 

As the project matures and becomes more integrated with wearables, users will be able to earn SWEAT via a wider variety of activities like hiking, rowing, and cycling. Tokens can then be sold and traded like any other digital crypto asset or used to purchase goods and services on the Sweatcoin app marketplace from one of over 300 brand partners like Reebok and Sonos.

Helping onboard the world to Web3 is one of NEAR’s core mission objectives. Collaborating with Sweatcoin is a substantial step in that direction, making NEAR a key part of tomorrow’s move-to-earn economy.

NEAR at Paris Blockchain Week Summit
The Sweatcoin partnership announcement was just the tip of the iceberg for NEAR at the Paris Blockchain Week Summit. From April 12-14, the NEAR Foundation participated in a number of talks on blockchain innovation, dapp development, and DAO governance.

The NEAR-Atka Meetup kicked things off at the historical Palais Brongniart stock exchange building. Attendees mingled over food and champagne as NEAR figures took the stage. 

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament started the keynotes with opening remarks and an introduction to the NEAR ecosystem. Illia Polosukhin, Co-founder of NEAR, then updated the audience on NEAR infrastructure and developments, including protocol security and enterprise solutions. Attendees also received a progress report from Anton Vaisburd, general manager of NEAR’s Ukraine Regional Hub. The day concluded with the 90-minute “Building on NEAR” panel, featuring tips and insights from developers of key ecosystem projects.

At the Discovery Stage on Day 2, Flament gave a keynote on the diversity of apps and economies set to emerge in the future. She pointed to YouMinter, SailGP, and Sweatcoin as examples of apps and partnerships that are helping to build the Open Web on NEAR.

PBWS wrapped up on April 14th with Flament leading the “Interactive Roundtable: Pioneering the Future of DAOs.” Panelists included NEAR Co-founder Polosukhin, SailGP’s Charlie Dewhurst, and Paraswap founder Mounir Benchelemb. 

Polosukhin advocated for DAOs’ potential to help solve difficult challenges quickly in ways that traditional non-profits or corporations cannot. Dewhurst noted that DAOs like SailGP can bring competitors closer to fans and encourage collaborative team and sports brand building with audiences. Benchelemb added that while DAOs empower individuals regardless of background, simplified onboarding is critical for mass adoption in the future.

Click here for full highlights of NEAR @ PBWS 2022.

NEAR in the News
Recently, NEAR made news with Flament discussing the environmental impact of crypto and the protocol’s carbon neutrality in an article published on Verdict. She referenced Sweatcoin as a way that the NEAR Foundation is encouraging greener lifestyles across the planet. Flament said a key goalsof the partnership is to make physical activity part of the global GDP, leading to a more sustainable global economy.

NEAR also popped up in a BNN Bloomberg article about the state of Fintech post-Brexit. Flament noted that while Fintech has improved financial services in certain respects, it hasn’t been truly disruptive and the space has become crowded. Blockchain and the Open Web will be the catalyst for developers to inject adrenaline and meaningful disruption into fintech and payments, she said.

NEAR checked in ahead of April’s IFGS conference, with Flament speaking to Finextra about Web3’s transformative potential on financial services. While blockchain will decentralize finance and offer new modalities of transacting value, she said nurturing new talent will be a key challenge to overcome. It’s why NEAR recently partnered with OrangeDAO, a crypto group created by Y Combinator alums, which is backing Web startups and talent.

Next, Flament penned an op-ed for UK Tech titled “Web3 and the race for talent: why diversity is critical to success.” Her thoughts ranged from how diversity can be hard-coded into Web3 and how education to enhance blockchain’s inclusivity.

Flament also represented NEAR as a panelist for Financial Times’ FT Live online event on April 27th. The panel discussion went on a deep dive into the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues facing crypto. The conversation centered on whether more investor scrutiny is needed to make digital assets more sustainable. The panelists also talked about lowering the blockchain’s carbon footprint and preventing illicit activities like money laundering using cryptocurrencies. 

Education and networking at DevConnect Amsterdam
NEAR @ DevConnect took place on April 21st at Boom Chicago in Amsterdam, with a full day of in-depth sessions. The event gave attendees an opportunity to connect with fellow developers, community members, and ecosystem partners. 

DevConnect also provided developers space and resources for onboarding to NEAR and Aurora, as well as information on how projects and developers can potentially apply for and receive funding via the NEAR Foundation Grants program. 

Core topics at DevConnect included NEAR’s vision and roadmap for 2022, and technical overviews of Aurora and NearPay, a new crypto debit card. Speakers included CEO Marieke Flament, NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, and Flux CTO Jasper De Gooijer, and COO of NearPay Illin. 

As always, anyone who couldn’t attend in person at Boom Chicago was able to stream DevConnect on NEARVERSE. DevConnect Amsterdam was a huge success and NEAR looks forward to subsequent events in 2022. 

Sankore and NEAR launch the Kenya Regional Hub
April also saw the NEAR Foundation announce the launch of the Kenya Regional Hub. A partnership with Sankore, NEAR Guild based in Kenya, the hub will accelerate blockchain innovation, education, and talent development across Sub-Saharan Africa.

The hub will be led by Sankore founder Kevin Imani and his core team. They plan to organize events, launch an incubator, and incorporate NEAR into Sankore’s existing bounty system. Imani’s vision is to use blockchain to help solve some of Africa’s biggest challenges. He believes that partnering with NEAR for the Regional Hub will help nurture the talent to do just that.

“We are excited by the potential avenues throughout Africa for blockchain solutions,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This hub represents a unique opportunity to partner with local talent not only for the opportunities that we know exist today but also for the opportunities yet to be created in the future.”

Given Sankore’s success incubating blockchain projects, it won’t take long for NEAR’s Kenya Regional to gain traction. The NEAR Foundation is thrilled to offer the hub the resources to create a prosperous, open digital future.

ICYMI: The Merging of Music and the Blockchain 
The NEAR Foundation also published 4-part series “Music in the Blockchain Era” in April. It explored the radical shift taking place in blockchain-enabled music, including new royalty models, DAO record labels, and more.

To facilitate a more free and fair Open Web, NEAR Foundation will support new pathways and technologies for musical creativity. The foundation will also help build stronger communities for fans and artists alike. 

Want to learn more about how blockchain is changing the way we create, consume, and interact with music and musicians? Check out the “Music in the Blockchain Era” series below:

Introducing the Future of Sound
Building a Record Label on the Blockchain
The Rise of the New Musician
The Future of Decentralized Music

Customer acquisition platform helps crypto companies grow
COMMUNITY
April 17, 2020
Depending on who you ask, the drop-off rate of blockchain applications is somewhere between 95% and 97%. This means that no more than five users actually succeed with onboarding for every 100 that try. In addition, web2 users today barely see any value in blockchain applications, which they often describe as “toy applications.” 

Currently, the market of blockchain applications is extremely tiny, with somewhere between 10,000 and 12,000 developers in the mix. As a result, there are only a couple hundred projects, very few of which have any traction. 

Talented entrepreneurs and developers expect robust developer tooling, seamless onboarding for their users, and numerous opportunities to monetize their applications and businesses over time. Such an infrastructure is almost non-existent on a protocol-level today. As such, there is an opportunity for developers to build applications that solve these challenges. 

What if you could encode digital assets into URLs and QR codes? Not only this, what if you could send this URL to your friend who doesn’t even have a digital wallet?

Introducing Linkdrop
Linkdrop helps crypto-native organizations (e.g., protocols, decentralized applications, and wallets) manage their marketing campaigns by providing tools that help them target their potential customers. URLs and QR codes allow them to create a seamless experience for end-users, including the first-time crypto users. With this approach, users don’t have to deal with complex wallet creation processes, and crypto-native organizations enjoy significantly improved conversion rates during the onboarding stage. 

In addition, Linkdrop creates opportunities for companies to tap into their users’ networks by allowing them to invite their friends through referral links. 

Not only can you address the crypto-acquiring process with Linkdrop, you can also enable wallet creation and sign in with Google via Linkdrop’s wallet widget. 

With Linkdrop, companies can manage their link campaigns, distribute them, and run analytics in one place. This allows you to measure the impact of your Linkdrop campaigns and use meaningful user analytics to optimize your next one. 


Why Blockchain:

Linkdrop started with the blockchain market as an entry point in other markets. From Linkdrop’s perspective, gaming and internet companies integrating blockchain-based marketing will be the first outside of crypto to adopt Linkdrop solutions. Once blockchain becomes the dominant technology for transferring value, traditional companies will start acquiring users with blockchain-based marketing campaigns.

Further Reading
Linkdrop’s blog

Relevant Industries
Wallets (e.g., Gnosis Safe, Coinbase Wallet, and Trust Wallet are customers), blockchain applications (e.g., Decentraland, Snark.art, and Pool Together), protocols (e.g., Binance, Flow, and NEAR).
Balancer’s DeFi Protocol is bringing Programmable Liquidity to NEAR
COMMUNITY
October 26, 2020
With the unrestricted MainNet launch just over a week ago, the NEAR community is hard at work to bring best in class applications to the platform. Balancer is the latest addition to a vibrant ecosystem of protocols and projects using NEAR.

NEAR’s smart contract platform shares a vision with Ethereum, making it easier for DApps to migrate or move between chains. The key difference is that NEAR is heavily focused on achieving both the usability and performance necessary to support at-scale real world applications with lower gas fees, low latency, and a flexible account model.

NEAR Protocol is helping companies like Balancer scale beyond what’s been possible in blockchain before. We spoke with Jeremy Musighi, Head of Growth at Balancer Labs about the community driven growth of their platform and why Balancer is excited to be building on NEAR.

“We’re excited to partner with the NEAR team in co-funding the development of Balancer on the NEAR protocol. While the Balancer Labs team remains focused on Ethereum-based development of the Balancer protocol, we welcome the opportunity to support building on-chain liquidity on NEAR, while observing and learning from how Balancer’s technology performs when paired with the lower gas fees and low latency that the NEAR protocol offers.”

Decentralized Liquidity is Key
Balancer is a protocol for programmable liquidity; a fundamental component of decentralized financial applications. The platform provides financial building blocks upon which anyone can easily create DeFi products and services not possible before in traditional financial systems.

Balancer pools are automated market makers (AMM) that function as self-balancing weighted portfolios and price sensors. This enables decentralized solutions like trustless exchange of assets, automated index funds, fair and transparent token distributions, and smart treasury management solutions.

Balancer’s Killer DeFi Use Cases
Above all, one of the most exciting aspects of Balancer is giving liquidity providers an opportunity to earn passive income from swap fees when they stake their assets into liquidity pools. This gives token holders across a variety of assets like Bitcoin, Ethereum, and NEAR (soon!) the ability to earn a return by holding their tokens in order to provide liquidity in the market.

This concept of decentralized liquidity powers four of the primary use cases emerging from the Balancer Protocol.

Decentralized Exchange – Balancer’s liquidity pools are the backbone that powers their AMM-based trading platform. As a decentralized exchange, Balancer is non-custodial, meaning that there is no third party holding customer funds. Instead, funds are trustlessly held by smart contracts, allowing trades to occur directly between traders and liquidity pools.
Automated Index Funds – Balancer’s platform allows you to create groups of assets in portfolios that are automatically rebalanced. This exciting alternative to traditional index funds / ETFs puts the power in the community and eliminates fees and overhead. Where you would normally pay fees to a middle man like Fidelity, Balancer flips the model and enables investors to earn fees while still reaping the benefits of a managed portfolio with diversified risk.
Launching Fairer Token Sales – Among the various types of pools on Balancer are Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools. These pools make it possible to launch token sales with practical mechanics that make them fair for participants. Rather than selling out in the first few minutes and being a race for the highest gas prices, Balancer Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools give investors a fair opportunity to participate in token sales by mathematically creating downward pressure on price, rewarding those who wait rather than those who FOMO.
Managing Smart Treasuries – The Balancer platform enables crypto protocols to manage their treasury in a Balancer smart pool that serves a “buyback and make” function as an improved iteration of the common “buyback and burn” model used by crypto networks. This smart treasury built on Balancer serves as an automatic buyback machine, token issuance pool, and liquidity provider.
As a permissionless platform, Balancer allows any developer to leverage its infrastructure to build financial products and services that will underpin a new global financial system. The BAL governance token is the native asset of the Balancer network which unites and empowers a borderless digital community to vote on the future evolution of the protocol. Learn more about Balancer and Join their community on Discord to get involved.

Why NEAR?
Native EVM support and the NEAR Rainbow Bridge are making it easier than ever for Ethereum applications to leverage the speed and cost benefits of NEAR without rebuilding their codebases and abandoning their existing users. These two critical components are what’s making it possible to build Balancer on NEAR in just a few months rather than years.

Gas fees are at times prohibitively expensive on Ethereum, which is not only financially burdensome but also technically challenging for DeFi projects. Gas fees prevent smaller liquidity pools on Balancer from being profitable by preventing maximum arbitrage efficiency, which requires fast, cheap, execution of transactions across markets.

With the NEAR Bridge, Balancer users will be able to port their ETH assets to NEAR and back as needed to take advantage of transaction fees and scalability on NEAR creating more opportunities for DeFi innovation on Balancer.

Balancer & NEAR Foundation Grants
The most exciting part of this partnership is that both NEAR and Balancer are offering TWO grants to their respective communities to help contribute to this integration and enable open finance to scale even faster.

Adapt the Balancer Frontend for NEAR – Balancer contracts can be run on NEAR inside the EVM environment. In order to accelerate the development of Balancer on NEAR, we’ve created a bounty for porting Balancer’s frontend to work on a set of Balancer contracts deployable to a NEAR node. Bounty: Up to $4,000 in $NEAR & $BAL
Integrate Balancer into NEAR Wallet – Balancer will run on NEAR inside the EVM environment. This will allow native assets on Balancer to be swapped with tokens on NEAR. Create a User Interface for the NEAR Wallet that allows users to swap tokens using Balancer contracts on NEAR. Bounty: $6,000 in $NEAR & $BAL
Learn more about these opportunities on the GitHub links above for details on their acceptance criteria and reach out to our team if you have any questions about getting started.

Welcome to the Community
Please join us in welcoming the Balancer team to the NEAR community, making DeFi solutions more scalable and cost effective on NEAR. Stay tuned as we have a number of great partners joining with applications across the ecosystem.

If you’re just learning about NEAR for the first time and are seeing this post, we invite you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people with NEAR. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.

Jeremy Musighi is Head of Growth at Balancer Labs, supporting the community-driven growth and sustainability of the Balancer protocol. He has also been a crypto investor and researcher since 2013, as founder and CIO of Immutable Capital. Previously, Jeremy founded, grew, and sold two consumer Internet technology companies.


NEAR Korea Hub: June 2023 Highlights
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 3, 2023
Since launching in November of 2022, NEAR Korea Hub has hit a number of major milestones in the Korean Web3 industry. The Hub has significantly contributed to the expansion of the Web3 ecosystem over the past 6 months by forming partnerships with leading domestic game companies, providing generous developer support, and forging long-term relationships with college blockchain clubs. 

Let’s take a look at all of the exciting things that came out of the NEAR Korea Hub during NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin’s visit.

NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin talks Web3 and AI
A number of major Korean media outlets conducted interviews with Illia on NEAR Protocol’s Web3 and AI strategy. Illia pointed out that NEAR Protocol’s principle focus is on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) and FastAuth, an important new product that provides a better-than-Web2 onboarding experience that can help foster the mass adoption of Web3.
Here is a list of Illia’s interviews (the coverage is in Korean):

Hankyung (Korea Economy) – “Blockchain and AI will Create the Best Synergy”
Kyunghyang – Blockchain AI Synergy will be Amazing
Kyunghyang Weekly – Is Fake News the Fault of Generative AI?
TechM – Korean Games Leading in Web3.0 Business Model… Synergy with AI and Blockchain
CoinDesk – Popularization of Web3 Starts from User-Centered Thinking
Illia’s talk at ETHSeoul & Buidl Asia — June 2nd – June 7th
Illia attended ETH Seoul and BUIDL Asia — both major Web3 events — as the first keynote speaker, where he gave a speech entitled “Web3’s Future, BOS.”  

“One of the major problems with Web3 is the user inconvenience when making and using wallets,” Illia pointed out. “With BOS, which provides a Web2-like experience and ease for developers and users, NEAR Protocol wants to connect all blockchain and users to onboard 1 billion users to Web3”. He also added: “BOS acts as a gateway to combine all features such as DeFi and NFT which are scattered around the Web3 network”.

Illia further emphasized the importance of the Korean market and shared achievements of NEAR Korea Hub. 
Illia’s Speech at the Gyeonggi Province ‘AI Expert Policy Roundtable’ — June 8th
Illia was invited to give his speech “The Intersection of AI and Web3” at the “AI Expert Policy Roundtable” hosted by Gyeonggi-do, the largest province in Korea. He also discussed potential partnership opportunities with the governor of Gyeonggi-do, who is also a presidential candidate.

In his speech, Illia noted: “AI should be open source instead of closed source. We need to find institutional measures to secure and manage high-quality data based on Web3 technology in the public domain. The combination of Web3 and AI has the potential to act as a pillar of the new policy for mass adoption. NEAR Protocol will be the strongest use case if allowed to become a bridge for onboarding users to Web3”.

Business Meetings and Major Partnerships 
Meetings with global companies 
NEAR Foundation and NEAR Korea Hub hosted meetings between Illia and the management of major global companies in Korea. There were constructive discussions with companies looking to expand into Web3, which have already shown significant results.

From having small discussions to signing MOUs with major companies including Netmarble and Mirae Asset, the Korea Hub laid the foundation for solid collaboration. This foundation will serve as an important first step in expanding the Web3 industry in Korea.

MARBLEX Partnership — June 5th
NEAR Foundation has joined forces with MARBLEX, a blockchain subsidiary of Netmarble, to Expand Korea’s Web3 Gaming Industry with Aurora. Netmarble is a global top 7 game publisher with 1M+ MAU in the last three games.

Through this strategic business agreement, NEAR Foundation and MARBLEX plan to achieve mutual growth by linking the NEAR blockchain and Aurora with WARP Bridge to enable interactive collaboration, promote global joint marketing events, and enhance brand awareness. Furthermore, competitive and casual gamers alike will now be able to enjoy a variety of games and exclusive content through NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (BOS).

More information on the NEAR Blog and Twitter.

Mirae Asset Partnership – June 7th
In a pivotal partnership for the blockchain industry, NEAR Foundation is joining forces with Mirae Asset — a subsidiary of Asia’s largest financial group Mirae Asset Global — to help bridge the gap between traditional finance and Web3.

Through this strategic business agreement, NEAR Foundation and Mirae Asset aim to expand the Web3 business domain and lead the global financial paradigm by conducting joint research and collaboration on Real-World Assets Technology. Furthermore, both parties have agreed to organize global joint events to enhance brand awareness and establish a mutual support system to strengthen the Web2/Web3 business network.

More information on the NEAR Blog and Twitter.

Vortex Gaming Onboarding — June 22nd
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Vortex Gaming, a Web3 subsidiary of the leading game industry INVEN. INVEN is the largest game media·community in Korea, with a monthly active user (MAU) count of 7.2 million.

With the guidance of the NEAR Korea Hub, NEAR Foundation and Vortex Gaming plan to achieve mutual growth by collaborating to support the growth of Vortex Gaming; strengthen the NEAR game ecosystem; conduct offline hackathons and events to foster developer talent; and enhance brand awareness and business networks.

Read the full announcement on the NEAR Foundation blog. 

Major Events
Glitch Hackathon Winners Dinner – May 30th
During the Glitch Hackathon, which took place from May 19th to 21st, Illia and the NEAR Korea team organized a meetup event with the participants of the NEAR Track. Despite being a multi-chain hackathon with five mainnets participating, the NEAR Track had the highest number of participants, and PokaTika from the NEAR Track won the hackathon.

NEAR Korea Hub’s constant support throughout the hackathon helped achieve these remarkable results. NEAR Korea Hub provided comprehensive support and mentoring to the participating teams. Furthermore, the meetup event, which was hosted to continuously build the Korean Web3 ecosystem and establish strong relationships with new builders, saw participation from over 70 builders.

 It provided builders with valuable opportunities to showcase their products. A considerable number of teams participating in the Glitch Hackathon also took part in the ETHSeoul Hackathon, which serves as evidence of the growth of the domestic builder ecosystem for NEAR Protocol.

ETHSeoul Hackathon — June 2nd – 4th
NEAR Protocol held “NEAR Track at ETHSeoul”, an event for the blockchain ecosystem and community. ETHSeoul served as a platform for discussions on Web3 mass adoption, with participation from 46 hackathon teams (including over 250 builders) and 800 Web3 users. 

Among the 46 participating teams, 24 teams chose NEAR Protocol despite the event’s focus on Ethereum, indicating the strong interest and influence of NEAR in Korea. 

At NEAR Track, after an intense competition among outstanding teams, the following teams emerged victorious:

1st. Pokatika, is a mobile application that enhances the post-event experience with unique NFT photo cards.
2nd. On Stage(What’s Next), turns artists’ characters and illustrations into NFTs, providing AI training data to NFT holders for integrating them into new AI images.
Co-3rd. AGLIPPA, combines blockchain and AI to democratize artistic creation, allowing anyone to transform personal experiences into everlasting NFT.
Co-3rd. 0xtail, matches football enthusiasts for a football game.
BUIDL Asia — June 6th – 7th
BUIDL Asia 2023 provided a platform for various projects and communities to come together, share insights, and discuss development trends. The event, organized by Erica Kang — a prominent figure representing Korean Web3 women — garnered significant media and corporate attention.

Illia and Alex Shevchenko, co-founder of Aurora, participated as speakers and shared insights on the NEAR ecosystem’s current trends and future prospects. Additionally, NEAR Korea Hub operated a booth at the event, allowing attendees to experience the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) first-hand.

NEAR x Hashed Night — June 8th
NEAR x Hashed Night was a highly successful event co-organized with Hashed, a distinguished venture capital firm representing the Web3 industry. The event witnessed the participation of 35 partner companies and an impressive attendance of 410 individuals. Illia led the event alongside key executives from the NEAR ecosystem who served as distinguished speakers. They provided insightful introductions to NEAR Protocol and its notable projects, facilitating valuable networking opportunities for all attendees.

Speakers like Alex Shevchenko, co-founder of Aurora, Bowen Shen, co-founder of Proximity Labs, and Ran Yi, co-founder of Orderly Network attended the event. Representatives from Mirae Asset and MARBLEX, who recently formed a strategic partnership with NEAR Foundation, were also present. It was amazing to see so many major Web2 and Web3 companies in one place, as it created a fantastic opportunity to explore new business prospects.

As one attendee noted: “The place was so crowded that it was running out of oxygen”. This achievement was made possible thanks to NEAR’s growing reputation in the Korean Web3 industry and the onboarding of numerous builders through Glitch and ETHSeoul Hackathon.

NEAR Korea is really excited about NEAR’s upcoming events, including Korea Blockchain Week(KBW), and they look forward to high expectations and participation!

Raising NEAR awareness in Korea
Overall, Illia’s time in Korea along with the hard work of NEAR Korea Hub has greatly enhanced the awareness and influence of NEAR Protocol within Korea. This was made possible through the active support of the NEAR Foundation and the strong collaboration with ecosystem partners. 
Pyth Price Feeds Launch on NEAR Protocol Bringing Equity, Commodities, and Market Data On Chain
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 30, 2023
Pyth, the largest first-party provider of real-time market data for crypto, equities, FX, and commodities to more than 40 blockchains, has launched on NEAR protocol. Pyth, whose services are used by more than 80 market participants — including Jane Street, CBOE, Binance, OKX, and Bybit — brings high-fidelity, high frequency financial market data to the NEAR blockchain natively for the first time.

Previously, Pyth had deployed its feeds to Aurora, the EVM chain built on NEAR. But today Pyth data feeds are fully compatible with NEAR Protocol.   

The announcement is a boon to the burgeoning DeFi ecosystem built on top of NEAR, which stands to benefit from data feeds that update every 300 milliseconds.

While other oracle providers use third-party data providers or relayers, Pyth’s data comes from institutions directly. Additionally, Pyth does not use price triggers to prevent certain prices from being pushed. Pyth uses Confidence Intervals to ensure continuous price availability. This new metric allows projects to consume Pyth’s price feeds during the most volatile market conditions.

The Importance of Oracles 
Oracles are an important part of any DeFi ecosystem, since they are the information bridges between blockchains and databases. Although oracles could be built by the developers of DeFi projects, out-of-box, decentralized oracles are helpful for builders to start quickly without losing time and effort creating their own oracles. 

“Celebrating a new era of data reliability and trust, Douro Labs is thrilled to announce the seamless integration of Pyth Network with the NEAR blockchain,” says Abhimanyu Bansal, Head of Partnerships at Douro Labs. 

“This strategic partnership empowers developers on NEAR with real-time, accurate data feeds, and as we bridge the gap between the physical and digital worlds this integration propels us towards a future of decentralized applications that are not only secure but also truly informed.”

Pyth has a robust network that is able to deliver price data even during sizable events. During the LUNA/UST incident in May ‘22, Pyth managed to track the LUNA price very accurately during the UST de-peg, while other networks stopped updating the price, causing inaccurate price data. 

In less than a year since Pyth’s launch, the network secured more than $2.0B in total value. Pyth has facilitated over $70 billion in trading volume and received over a million client downloads from passionate developers. Pyth supports 350+ low-latency price feeds across digital assets, equities, ETFs, forex pairs, and commodities. 


Summer of Shipping on NEAR Heats up with Horizon’s HZN3 Cohort
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 2, 2024
The NEAR Horizon Accelerator (HZN) is continuing to nurture early-stage open founders by launching its third cohort, HZN3. As part of NEAR’s Summer of Shipping, HZN3 will encourage accountability, community, and deploying products that amplify chain abstraction.

Established as an equity-free program, HZN3 is designed to deliver mentorship, technical support, and tactical education to empower founders in navigating the complexities and hurdles associated with building a thriving, successful project.

With a focus on crypto-native go-to-market strategies and refinding the tech stack, HZN3 will be a vital resource for founders aiming to scale their projects. It underscores NEAR’s commitment to fostering innovation and supporting the next wave of open web projects, contributing significantly to the ecosystem’s diversity and resilience.

HZN3 is a chain-agnostic program and welcomes builders from any ecosystem. This approach is part of fulfilling NEAR’s vision for a unified, user-friendly open web. Here’s everything you need to know about the HZN3 cohort and how to join.

Empowering Open Web Innovation with HZN3
The HZN3 Accelerator Program, NEAR’s third cohort under the Horizon banner, will be a structured, eight-week journey for open web founders, emphasizing sustainable growth. This equity-free approach aligns with NEAR’s dedication to founders success and autonomy. 

Specifically geared towards early-stage Web3 founders, HZN3 is a launchpad for projects at any development stage, from idea to MVP. The program’s core objectives are to furnish participants with mentorship, one-on-one technical support, and education tailored to the nuances of launching and scaling in the crypto space.

While HZN3 does not provide direct funding, its focus is on providing invaluable resources and a network that far exceeds monetary support. The HZN3 Program runs from May 20th – July 12th, 2024, capped with a Demo Day live at ETH CC in Brussels, Belgium HZN3 will be an intensive, hands-on experience, crafted to sharpen go-to-market strategies and refine technical stacks, ensuring projects are not just visionary but viable and market-ready. 

The application period, spanning from March 18th to May 10th, 2024, invites early-stage founders to step forward with their visions, irrespective of their blockchain foundation, fostering a diversity rich cohort. Selected participants can anticipate a kickoff meeting to outline the road ahead, ensuring founders are prepared for the intensive, growth-oriented journey in HZN3.

Building on Previous HZN Alumni Success
The HZN3 program will take its cue from the achievements of previous HZN alumni projects that have laid the groundwork for the upcoming cohort. The previous 50+ participants from HZN’s programs include Gravvity, Quest, Superchargd, Plato, Shard Dog, and Contented, illustrating HZN’s tangible impact. 

These projects have navigated the initial stages of development and launch, successfully securing significant external capital and collectively raising over $20 million. These funding successes validate the value and trust investors place in HZN-supported initiatives and highlight HZN’s effectiveness in preparing founders for the pitching and funding process.

The accelerator’s focus on mentorship, technical support, and tactical education has also equipped these projects with the necessary tools for scalability and market penetration. Through HZN, founders gain financial backing and receive a comprehensive foundation for sustained growth, network expansion, and strategic positioning moving forward.

HZN’s commitment to fostering innovation and supporting early-stage projects contributes significantly to the diversity and resilience of the NEAR ecosystem, ensuring a vibrant future for open web innovation.

Apply to HZN3 and Join NEAR’s Vision for Chain Abstraction
HZN3 applications are open from March 18th to May 10th, 2024, welcoming visionaries eager to scale their projects. Interested founders can apply directly through HZN’s application page, where they’ll find detailed instructions and requirements. Founders building on any blockchain are encouraged to apply, as HZ3 is a chain-agnostic program.

HZN3 also plays a critical role in NEAR’s broader chain abstraction narrative by attracting diverse, high-quality projects across multiple blockchains. By supporting founders regardless of blockchain or ecosystem, HZN3 will contribute to the broader vision of chain abstraction. This approach is key for driving the adoption of the chain abstraction stack. 

Through HZN3, NEAR reinforces its commitment to an open web that thrives on diversity, collaboration, and shared success.

Seizing Open Web Opportunities with HZN3
As an equity-free, accelerator program, HZN3 is a unique opportunity to bootstrap and jumpstart any project. Founders won’t want to miss out on key resources, network expansion, and strategic development insights they’ll receive during the course of the program.

Potential applicants should apply before May 10th, 2024, to secure a spot in the upcoming HZ3 cohort. For more details, visit HZN’s application page to join the community discussion, connect with peers and mentors, and brainstorm about how your project can be a part of the open web’s future.
A Deep Dive into Private Transactions on NEAR
DEVELOPERS
April 22, 2020
Last week, we announced a collaboration with ZeroPool that will add support for private transactions to the NEAR Protocol. In NEAR today, all transactions are public—similar to Bitcoin and Ethereum. That means that—for every transaction—the sender, the receiver, and the amount transacted are all public. This is what allows everyone to audit the ledger and confirm that all the transactions are valid and no tokens are spent twice.

In many cases, it is desirable to transact in a way where only the participants involved in the transaction can have any insight into it. Achieving this while maintaining the ability to validate the correctness of the ledger is a complex task involving non-trivial cryptography.

In this blog post, I will dive deep into the internals of how private transactions will be implemented on NEAR so that no information about the participants or amounts are revealed—all without sacrificing the ability to validate the correctness.

UTXO tree
While NEAR generally uses the account model, private transactions use the unspect transaction output (UTXO) model instead. Each UTXO is a tuple (amount, receiver, salt) where amount is the amount of tokens transferred, receiver is the public key of the receiver of tokens, and salt is just some random number.

All the UTXOs are stored in a merkle tree of a predefined height. The height of the tree defines how many transactions the pool can process throughout its existence.

Each leaf of the tree is either an UTXO, or null, indicating a vacant spot that can in the future be occupied by a new UTXO. Once a spot is occupied, it never frees up. Initially, all the leaves are nulls.

The actual UTXO is never revealed to anyone but the receiver. Instead, the leaves of the merkle tree are hashes of the UTXOs—thus the need for the salt. Without the salt, if Alice knows Bob’s public key, she can brute-force different amounts and see if the hash of amount, Bob’s public key appears as the leaf of the tree, thus deanonymizing a transaction sent to Bob.

Transactions
Let’s say Alice wants to send some tokens privately to Bob. The tokens that belong to Alice are those in the UTXOs in which the receiver is equal to Alice’s public key. To make a private transfer, Alice creates a transaction of the following form:

The transaction has exactly two inputs and exactly two outputs (the exact number of input and output UTXOs doesn’t have to be two but does need to be the same for all the transactions). The inputs are some existing UTXOs that correspond to some leaves of the merkle tree, and the outputs are brand-new UTXOs that will be appended to the tree.

When Alice is sending the transaction, if she actually publishes the two input UTXOs that are being spent, she will link the transaction to the transactions that produced those UTXOs. The goal of the pool is to make sure that such links cannot be established and thus the input UTXOs cannot be published.

How can we implement the transactions in such a way that the validators can confirm that it spends some existing UTXOs without revealing the actual UTXOs being spent? 

ZeroPool, like many other privacy-preserving transaction engines, uses zero-knowledge succinct non-interactive arguments of knowledge (zk-SNARKs) for this purpose.

Zero-knowledge arguments of knowledge for a particular computation allow producing cryptographic proofs of the following form:

Given public input 1, public input 2 …

I know such private input 1, private input 2 …

That [some claim]

The way such arguments of knowledge work is outside the scope of this writeup. For more on this topic, this blog post provides a great overview with a lot of details.

For the purposes of the private transactions, in the most naive way, the argument of knowledge can have the following form:

Given the merkle root, and two hashes OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2,

I know four such UTXOs IN1, IN2, OUT1, OUT2, two merkle proofs P1 and P2 and a private key x,

That hashes of OUT1 and OUT2 are correspondingly OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, and the receiver in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the public key X that corresponds to x, and the merkle proofs P1 and P2 are valid proofs of inclusion of IN1 and IN2 in a tree with the given merkle root, and the sum of amounts in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the sum of amounts in OUT1 and OUT2.

The transaction then consists of merkle_root, out_hash1, out_hash2, argument of knowledge, and nothing in the transaction reveals the recipients of the output UTXOs nor links the output UTXOs to the particular input UTXOs. Moreover, even the amount transacted is not revealed in the transaction.

For example, in the figure above, say the first and third UTXOs in the merkle tree have Alice as the recipient and amounts of $100 and $17 correspondingly. Alice knows those two UTXOs but has no insight into any other UTXO in the tree. If she wants to send $42 to Bob, she creates a transaction that uses both of her UTXOs as inputs and creates two new outputs: one sending $42 to Bob and another sending the remaining $75 to herself. She reveals the UTXO that is intended for Bob to Bob. But the remaining UTXOs are not known to anyone but her. Moreover, even the hashes of the input UTXOs are not revealed to anyone.

The smart contract that maintains the pool, once it receives such a transaction, verifies the argument of knowledge. If it checks out, it appends the two new UTXOs to the tree:

Once Bob receives the UTXO from Alice, he waits until the hash of the UTXO appears in the tree. Once it does, Bob has the tokens.

The problem with this naive approach is that the same input UTXO can be spent twice. Since nobody but Alice knows the hashes of the input UTXOs, the pool cannot remove the spent UTXOs from the merkle tree because it doesn’t know what to remove to begin with. 

If Alice creates two different zero-knowledge arguments that both spend the same two inputs, everybody will be able to verify that both transactions spend some UTXOs existing in the merkle tree but will have no insight into the fact that those UTXOs are the same in the two transactions.

To address this problem, we add a concept of a nullifier. In the simplest form for a particular UTXO the nullifier is a hash of the UTXO and the private key of the receiver of that UTXO. We then change the argument of knowledge for the transaction to the following:

Given the merkle root, and two hashes OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, and two more hashes NULLIFIER1 and NULLIFIER2

I know four such UTXOs IN1, IN2, OUT1, OUT2, two merkle proofs P1 and P2 and a private key x,

That hashes of OUT1 and OUT2 are correspondingly OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, and the receiver in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the public key X that corresponds to x, and the merkle proofs P1 and P2 are valid proofs of inclusion of IN1 and IN2 in a tree with the given merkle root, and the sum of amounts in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the sum of amounts in OUT1 and OUT2, and hash (IN1, x) is equal to NULLIFIER1 and hash (IN2, x) is equal to NULLIFIER2

Note that any transaction that spends a particular UTXO will have the same NULLIFIER computed because the NULLIFIER only depends on the hash of the UTXO and the private key that uniquely corresponds to the public key in the UTXO. And since the NULLIFIER in the argument of knowledge above is in the “Given” clause, which is public, if two transactions that spend the same UTXO are ever published, everybody will be able to observe that they have the same NULLIFIER and discard the later of the two transactions.

Also note that, for as long as the hash used to compute it is preimage resistant, the NULLIFIER reveals nothing about either the input UTXO or the private key of the receiver.

Depositing, Withdrawing
The transactions described above work great to move assets within the pool. But for the pool to be of any use, there must be a way to move assets from outside the pool into the pool and from the pool back outside of it.

To that extent, the private transaction format is extended to have an extra field called delta, such that the sum of the amounts in input UTXOs is equal to the sum of the amounts in the output UTXOs plus delta:

Given the merkle root, and two hashes OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, two more hashes NULLIFIER1 and NULLIFIER2 and a value delta

I know four such UTXOs IN1, IN2, OUT1, OUT2, two merkle proofs P1 and P2 and a private key x,

That hashes of OUT1 and OUT2 are correspondingly OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, and the receiver in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the public key X that corresponds to x, and the merkle proofs P1 and P2 are valid proofs of inclusion of IN1 and IN2 in a tree with the given merkle root, and the sum of amounts in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the sum of amounts in OUT1 and OUT2 plus delta, and hash (IN1, x) is equal to NULLIFIER1 and hash (IN2, x) is equal to NULLIFIER2

Note that the delta is in the given clause and is thus public.

When such a transaction is processed on NEAR, if the delta is negative (i.e., so that more tokens enter the private transaction than exit it), the extra tokens are deposited to the sender’s account. If the delta is positive (i.e., more tokens exit the transaction than enter it), such a transaction is only valid if the remaining tokens are attached to it.

Transaction fees
Private transactions do not allow linking between the newly created UTXOs and the UTXOs that were used as inputs. However, for any transaction to be included on the NEAR chain, the transaction sender must pay for gas and thus must have native NEAR tokens in the sending account. Those tokens somehow got to that account, which creates linkability and largely defeats the purpose of the private transactions.

To address the problem, we introduce a new role in the system called relayer. 

Say Alice wants to send a transaction to Bob and wants to use Ryan as the relayer. The gas fee for the transaction is less than Ⓝ1 and Alice is willing to pay Ryan Ⓝ1 for submitting the transaction to the chain.

Alice, who might not have an account on NEAR at all, creates a private transaction in which the sum of the two input UTXO amounts is Ⓝ1 less than the sum of the output UTXO amounts. The remaining Ⓝ1 is withdrawn to the account of the submitter of the transaction. Ryan collects the transaction from Alice, confirms the validity of the transaction, and submits it from his account, spending less than Ⓝ1 in gas but receiving Ⓝ1 as the result of the transaction.

Alice ends up submitting the transaction without revealing herself and Ryan receives a small payout. Note that no party needs to trust the other in this interaction: Ryan cannot tamper with the transaction in any way and thus can only either submit it or do nothing. So, the biggest risk for Alice is the possibility that her transaction is not submitted (in which case she can ask another relayer to submit it). Ryan verifies the transaction before submitting it and thus doesn’t risk spending gas and not receiving his payment unless another relayer front ran them.

Further improvements
The model described so far is a fully functional pool for private transactions. In this section, I will briefly mention several other aspects that improve the security or usability of the pool:

Discovering payments
When describing the transactions above, I mentioned that when Alice sends tokens privately to Bob, she shares the newly created UTXO with him. This requires Alice communicating with Bob off-chain, which is undesirable. Instead, the pool can be extended to store all the UTXOs encrypted with the public keys of their recipients. When Alice sends money to Bob and creates two new UTXOs, she encrypts the UTXO that has Bob as the recipient with Bob’s public key.

On his end, Bob monitors all the newly created UTXOs and tries to decrypt each one with his private key. Once he gets to the UTXO created by Alice, the decryption succeeds, and Bob discovers their UTXO using exclusively on-chain communication.

Decoupling signing and proving
When Alice creates a transaction, she needs to create a complex proof that in particular uses the knowledge of her private key. Thus, the machine that computes the proof needs access to the private key, which is undesirable. 

Generally, it is preferable to have the private keys on some external hardware device that only has limited functionality, such as signing messages. Computing arguments of knowledge is generally way outside the capabilities of such hardware devices.

To accommodate these devices, we make the key generation create three keys instead of two:

Private Key, Decryption Key, Public Key

Here, a message encrypted with the Public Key can be decrypted with the Decryption Key. Similarly, a signature created with the Private Key can be verified having access to the Decryption Key. Only the public key is revealed publicly. The decryption key is stored on the device that computes transaction proofs and the private key is stored on the external device that can only sign messages.

We can then alter the argument of knowledge in the following way:

Given the merkle root, and two hashes OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, and two more hashes NULLIFIER1 and NULLIFIER2

I know four such UTXOs IN1, IN2, OUT1, OUT2, two merkle proofs P1 and P2, a decryption key d and a signature s,

That hashes of OUT1 and OUT2 are correspondingly OUT_HASH1 and OUT_HASH2, and the receiver in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the public key X that corresponds to d, and the merkle proofs P1 and P2 are valid proofs of inclusion of IN1 and IN2 in a tree with the given merkle root, and the sum of amounts in IN1 and IN2 is equal to the sum of amounts in OUT1 and OUT2, and hash (IN1, d) is equal to NULLIFIER1 and hash (IN2, d) is equal to NULLIFIER2, and s is a signature on a message (IN1, IN2, OUT1, OUT2) that is valid against d

When Alice then wants to create a transaction, she uses the hardware device to sign (IN1, IN2, OUT1, OUT2). She then uses the signature s to generate the proof on the machine that only has access to the decryption key.

Note that without access to the hardware device one cannot generate s and thus cannot spend money—even if they get access to the machine that is used for proving.

Supporting more tokens
The private transactions are not limited to the native NEAR tokens. With a very slight modification, the pool can be generalized to support any tokens using the same anonymity pool for all of them. The exact construction is outside the scope of this write-up, however.

Outro
Besides collaborating with NEAR, ZeroPool also builds private transactions for Ethereum and is primarily funded by the community. Consider supporting them on Gitcoin.

Educational Materials
This write-up is part of an ongoing effort to create high-quality educational materials about blockchain protocols. Check out this video series in which we dive deep into the design of various protocols—such as Ethereum, Cosmos, Polkadot, and others—as well as our other technical write-ups.

Supporting Early Stage Blockchain Companies
If you are an entrepreneur in the web3 space, consider joining our accelerator with mentors from tier1 companies and investment firms in the space:http://openwebcollective.com/. We help with all the aspects of building the business, including identifying the market, business development, marketing, and fundraising.

Stay in Touch
We are NEAR, an open source sharded blockchain protocol. You can deploy your first fully functional decentralized application to NEAR within minutes from our fully functional web-based IDE.

 

Follow us on Twitter to get updates about our new educational materials, while keeping tabs on our progress toward the decentralized future.
NEAR Horizon and Encode Club: Accelerating Blockchain Mastery for Builders
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 9, 2023
NEAR Horizon and Encode Club have joined forces with a singular mission: to simplify the entry into the Web3 sphere. This partnership forms a structured pathway, offering builders and founders a seamless transition into the blockchain world. Anchoring their efforts on practical solutions, NEAR Horizon and Encode Club aim to foster an inclusive and accessible future in the ever-evolving decentralized landscape.

Uniting Encode’s developer training expertise with NEAR’s advanced tech, the partnership goes beyond facilitation. It directly trains builders, fueling growth and actively shaping an open Web3.

Encode x NEAR Horizon: Four steps to blockchain expertise
This inclusive program is meticulously designed to accommodate everyone from those new to blockchain to well-versed industry professionals, promoting skill development and exploration in Web3.

Here’s what to expect:

Encode x NEAR Horizon Educational Series: The journey commences with a four-week program of building awareness of Web3 and NEAR Technology. These sessions aim to demystify blockchain technology, making it approachable for newcomers while offering valuable insights for seasoned professionals. From introductory presentations to in-depth technical demos, the educational series lays a solid foundation for all participants.
Encode x NEAR Horizon Bootcamp: An intense eight-week program offers a deep dive into the world of blockchain development. Participants engage in live classes, practical assignments, and collaborative group projects — all under the expert guidance of seasoned instructors. The bootcamp offers a hands-on learning experience, accelerating the participants’ transition from theory to practice.
Encode x NEAR Horizon Hackathon: A four-week hackathon that supports builders in launching high-quality projects. This event is designed to challenge participants and allow them to apply their newfound skills. With technical workshops, mentorship, and continual support, the hackathon provides an excellent platform for budding developers to build, learn, and innovate.
Encode x NEAR Horizon Accelerator Program: This eight-week program focuses on nurturing the most promising hackathon projects and ecosystem builders. By offering mentorship and weekly workshops, the accelerator program aims to transform innovative ideas into operational startups, contributing to the growth and diversity of the NEAR ecosystem.
In essence, this partnership between NEAR Foundation and Encode Club is more than just an event — it’s a comprehensive roadmap to blockchain mastery, designed to educate, engage, challenge, and inspire all who embark on the journey.

Cultivating talent: Encode x NEAR Horizon growth strategy
The program offers a well-structured process for developers to learn, practice and build startups while receiving mentorship support from Encode and NEAR Horizon. The program’s impact extends beyond individual growth, as it also fosters a thriving environment for the NEAR ecosystem and Web3 developers.

Don’t miss the chance to be part of this enriching experience — an opportunity that promises to strengthen the NEAR ecosystem while nurturing the next generation of Web3 developers. Embark on a rewarding blockchain journey with the NEAR Horizon and Encode Club partnership. Whether it’s the educational series, hackathon, bootcamp, or accelerator program, NEAR Horizon and Encode provide the resources and opportunities you need to succeed in the world of blockchain. Your blockchain adventure starts here. 

To start,  create a NEAR Horizon project profile and register to the Encode x NEAR Horizon program here. Stay updated on Encode Club’s programs via their website, Twitter, and Discord, and join a community that shares your passion for Web3 innovation and growth. NEAR Horizon was recently launched, read the press release here, and register in the NEAR Horizon platform here.
Announcing the Launch of Pagoda, the World’s First Web3 Startup Platform
DEVELOPERS
February 19, 2022
At ETHDenver 2022, a top blockchain conference and hackathon, we proudly announced the launch of Pagoda: the world’s first Web3 startup platform. The Pagoda vision is to empower developers with a fully Web3-native toolset for building, maintaining, and scaling blockchain-based startups. 

Open Source, Integrated: Open Services for Developer-Entrepreneurs
In the first seven years of smart contract blockchains, building out across the Web3 tech stack has made it easier to build blockchain-based products and services. But even as the time from idea to working prototype has shortened with improved tooling, it’s still painful for engineers to monitor and maintain those prototypes and mature them into efficient, growth-ready businesses. 

Enter Pagoda, the first integrated Web3 startup platform and end-to-end solution for developer-entrepreneurs. 

The blockchain ecosystem still largely relies on many Web2 tools – especially the tools required to monitor an app’s performance and to track adoption and growth. These aren’t designed to work with Web3 products and come with all the platform risks that Web3 seeks to avoid. Every service we use now in Web2 needs to be rebuilt to integrate with Web3, to support the principles of users owning their own data and blockchain-based accounts. 

Pagoda’s objective is to offer Web3 native, fully decentralized versions of these tools at every layer of the stack, from the base blockchain protocol all the way up to the application and marketing/distribution layers. The NEAR ecosystem consists of many open source projects that can be integrated as “open services”: a familiar, cohesive development experience on top of a decentralized toolset. By providing interactive tutorials, scalable infrastructure, and operational analytics that are truly Web3 native, Pagoda better integrates them into one simple interface.

Growing the NEAR Ecosystem: the Best Choice for Founders
Beginning in 2018, NEAR Inc’s original mandate was to build the NEAR Protocol and launch MainNet, which we did in October 2020. From there, we focused on maintaining and evolving the protocol – notably with the launch of sharding, which started in late 2021 – and improving the developer experience.

Now we are a team of 70+ members across 20 countries. Pagoda will continue to contribute to the development of the NEAR ecosystem, as Near Inc did, by building and maintaining the protocol, SDKs, and APIs, while building out more tools and services at every layer of the stack. 

The core Pagoda product is the Developer Console.

Integrating the Web3 Stack: Pagoda Developer Console
The Pagoda Developer Console integrates open source, Web3-native tools across the entire stack, making it easier than ever for developer-entrepreneurs to build, maintain, and scale blockchain-based businesses.
The transition from developer to entrepreneur happens faster in Web3, and it’s getting easier all the time to launch a product. Actually scaling that product requires not just developer tools, but a whole range of tools to support and grow post-launch – all of these are integrated in the Developer Console. This includes a DAO to manage upgrades to applications, deep on-chain analytics, and even triggers and alarms in case of unexpected events. Connecting to users directly becomes even more important as a Web3 product grows, so founders also need easy ways to launch ownership tokens, NFTs for marketing, and notifications for simple communication with users. All of these tools need to be Web3-native from the ground up and seamlessly integrated in a single experience: this is the vision for founders on Pagoda.

As the NEAR Ecosystem expands and more tools are created, Pagoda will continuously integrate them into the product stack. It’s still early days for the Developer Console, but we encourage all developer-entrepreneurs to try it out and explore the future of Web3 startups. 

Try the Pagoda Developer Console Today
To start exploring the Developer Console and sign up for news and updates from Pagoda, visit pagoda.co and follow on Twitter at @PagodaPlatform. 
A personal message from Marieke Flament
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 21, 2023
All good things come to an end – and after a wild (very wild!) two years as CEO of NEAR Foundation, I have decided to step down and leave space for the next evolution of the NEAR Foundation, which will be led by Chris Donovan. 

I will continue my NEAR journey as an active and committed NEAR Foundation Council member, an advisor to Chris, a huge ecosystem advocate and hopefully a proud member of the NEAR Digital Collective (shameless plug – vote for me!). I am excited to continue having an impact and to continue contributing to NEAR. 

I am very proud of what has been achieved by the NEAR Foundation team for the ecosystem in an incredibly challenging environment.  

Two years ago, I had never heard of NEAR. Upon doing a bit of research and after several conversations it became clear that NEAR had a tremendous potential – fantastic tech, a  diverse and vibrant community and a world of open possibilities, and so I joined. 

I also took on the role because I believe that we can create a better internet through an Open Web, and help tackle some of our world’s biggest challenges by leveraging the incredible tech we have. 

My strategy has been one of driving mainstream adoption, enabling and empowering grassroot communities and continuing our journey to decentralization. Bringing onboard large web2 players, while nurturing web3 innovators has also been key to our growth.

I am extremely proud of what we have achieved together on this quest to bring an open web to the masses to further decentralize the ecosystem and drive mainstream adoption. 

Here’s a snapshot of what has been achieved so far: over the last two years we’ve  signed many critical partnerships – notably SWEAT, Playember, Circle, Ledger, Alibaba, Amazon, Google, KPMG, Cosmose AI, SailGP, The Littles, PipeFlare, Shemaroo, Kakao Games, Inven / Vortex and Netmarble / Marblex in Korea – just to name a few. 

As those partnerships came on mainnet, user growth went from 50k to 3m Monthly Active Accounts (growing daily!) – 2 out of 3 of the top Dapps on Dappradar are built on NEAR. And more is to come as many of the above partnerships are set to bear fruits in the coming weeks and months.

The awareness of NEAR has skyrocketed, putting NEAR on the map as a trusted player, thanks to over 2,000 pieces of press coverage, a Twitter follower growth from 200k to 2m and many very iconic and successful events such as NEARCON and NEARAPAC.

True to its mission the NEAR Foundation has helped empower the NEAR ecosystem, by kicking off its governance with the NEAR digital collective (NDC) an industry first for community governance of treasury; as well as setting up NEAR Horizon a unique on-chain platform providing founders the support they need to thrive. 

All this tremendous progress has been made while protecting our treasury amidst many internal and external crises, leaving us one of the industry’s best funded treasuries ($350m, 330m tokens). 

Last but not least, I am extremely proud and in awe of the NEAR Foundation’s team – a team of incredible people, which has at its core and heart one goal: to serve.

NEAR is in a very strong position – no other ecosystem is as well financed, nor has the decentralized governance that we have. We played the long game, away from FUD and FOMO, and it is starting to pay off. 

Although I am stepping down from the Foundation as CEO, I look forward to continue making an impact on NEAR and the Foundation, and in my future roles I vow to:

Be the voice and advocate for responsible decentralization, strongly rejecting any plans to centralize efforts away from the people. I strongly believe that when brought together people make better, fairer decisions.
Protect the ecosystem from any form of self-interest, no matter their origins. 
Fight against any toxic culture within the NEAR ecosystem – we are in this together and need to support one another.
The future is NEAR, 
Women in Web3 Changemakers: Veronica Korzh
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 10, 2023
“I think balance is the crucial factor,” says Veronica Korzh, the co-founder and CEO of GeekPay, an all-in-one platform to streamline and secure batch payments in digital currencies to gig workers.

“It doesn’t really matter if it’s Web2, Web3, Web5 or whatever — equality and diversity in terms of genders, races, religions brings more to the table.”

Korzh is one of the 10 finalists of the 2023 Women in Web3 Changemakers List, an annual competition designed to champion women pushing boundaries in the space. Korzh, along with nine other outstanding candidates, are showing the industry the change women are bringing about during the advent of the Open Web. 

Korzh was selected not only for her work at GeekPay, but because of the pivotal role she has played in supporting Ukrainian startups, helping them maintain access to funding and talent during a period where so many have been displaced after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 

Korze is a Partner at SID Venture Partners, the first unique Ukrainian high-technology venture capital firm established by IT experts focusing on investments into early-stage technology startups.

In little over a year, it has successfully funded 16 startups across a range of sectors, and recently became the most active venture investor in Ukrainian startups in the last 18 months. 

A Web3 Journey 
“My story is quite simple,” says Korzh, who is currently based in Lisbon. “I’ve been in the Ukrainian software business for about 15 years in project management, programme management, and also in product house roles”. 

Korzh’s journey into Web3 came about after a chance encounter with Illia Polosukhin, one of the co-founders of NEAR Protocol. “I was always fascinated about technology, and blockchain has, for the last 10 years, been one of the most exciting technologies.” 

This led Korzh to begin investigating what this breakthrough technology was really all about. At first, says Korzh, blockchain was difficult to understand, but there was something intriguing that led Korzh to dive deeper. At the time, Kurzh had been working on a fitness app in Ukraine, but that chance encounter led her to radically rethink the direction of her career. 

“I moved to blockchain and here starts the most interesting part of my life,” she says. In less than two years, Korzh has helped 16 companies access funding and become the co-founder of her own Web3 company. But the road hasn’t been without its challenges. 

Since the beginning of the Russian invasion in February 2022, the start-up sector in Ukraine’s bustling tech industry has been displaced. Dozens of companies had to relocate, further west in the country, or to welcoming hubs like Lisbon. This made evaluating companies on their merit more challenging. 

Since then, Ukraine’s crypto native community has bounced back. Ukraine has managed to raise more than $100 million in cryptocurrency donations through its government-curated Crypto Fund of Ukraine, thanks to natively built projects like UkraineDAO. For Korzh and her colleagues, the journey to find the best startups has, despite the disruption, continued. 

“The technology is still far away from what we would like to have in terms of the ecosystem.” This has meant assessing which projects should be funded, and which require more work, has been a challenge. But, says Korzh, that’s where women come in. 

More balance, better results
“I think balance is the secret sauce for progress for any business. The more balanced ecosystem you have, in terms of gender, the better your results.”

Korzh believes increasing the number of women in Web3 can only help produce better results. “In terms of gender equality, this space is very male,” says Korzh. “It is very hard to find women founders.”

This is where awards like the Women in Web3 Changemakers hopes to help showcase the work of women across the space and encourage others to take the plunge. 

“I think awards can help say: ‘I’m capable enough to start my own company,’ or ‘I’m capable enough to understand how blockchain works.’ It’s an indicator for myself as a female founder to think, okay, maybe I should also try myself, maybe I can build something, maybe I can create an idea that then changes the world.” 
NEAR is going to ETHDenver!
COMMUNITY
February 13, 2020
NEAR will be at ETHDenver and we can’t wait to see everyone there. It’s always exciting to see what ideas gain a foothold year after year. ETHDenver is an annual hackathon and conference that brings together diverse minds who are passionate about decentralization, Web3 & the blockchain ecosystem.

With the recent launch of NEAR’s EVM Compatibility, and incentivized testnet competition, we are excited to get more developers and entrepreneurs building on NEAR Protocol. 

We have three bounties for you worth $1,500 each.

🌈 Use the NEAR <> ETH Bridge

⛓️ Deploy an EVM-based smart contract to NEAR

👉 Use cross-contract calls in Rust

Read on to learn more about NEAR Protocol, what you can build, and how to participate in this year’s hackathon.

What’s NEAR Protocol?
With NEAR you can build, deploy and scale in minutes. NEAR Protocol is a scalable, Proof-of-Stake blockchain. It’s designed to provide the performance and user experience necessary to bridge the gap to mainstream adoption of decentralized applications. 

Whether you’re still looking for inspiration on which tech to build on, or are interested in building a truly decentralized application with world class support (our team can always be reached here), we’re excited to meet and hear from you in-person and online.

What can I build with NEAR, and what can I win?
We’re proud to continue our support of ETHDenver with both our participation and bounty sponsorship. 

Things NEAR is excited to see this ETHDenver :

what’s new in the DAO scene
oracle advancements
DeFi 
the future of scalable smart contracts 
the latest updates to contract-based wallets and accounts
NEAR is building for the builders. We invite you to come tinker, then build the open web with us.

NEAR is on the WebAssembly train! WebAssembly is the solid choice for modern smart contract development. It extends the possible set of smart contract programming languages to include choices like C#, Kotlin, Rust, and more. The smart contract examples in the NEAR Documentation are currently written in Rust and AssemblyScript. AssemblyScript is similar to TypeScript (which taps into 10M JS developer market), and actually compiles a subset of TypeScript to WebAssembly with ease.

Don’t have experience in Rust or AssemblyScript? No worries. Depending on your preference for backend or frontend, you can write and call smart contracts on NEAR intuitively. We’ve got some great examples to explore online (https://studio.nearprotocol.com/) and/or run locally (https://github.com/nearprotocol/create-near-app). Make sure to also look for our in-person workshop at 11:30am on Friday at ETHDenver for hands-on experience.

For the frontend folks, our ReactJS project generator will get a NEAR app running within moments. This may be particularly appealing to those familiar with the JavaScript build processes who enjoy quickly iterating. Once you’ve written your smart contract and compiled it to WebAssembly, you can choose how to interact with it. In addition to our ReactJS app, folks can interact with the blockchain with our slick shell tool. For example, after setting up a simple configuration you can deploy and call a contract from the command line. Since all of the code that runs the NEAR chain, tools or libraries is open source, you can jump into the libraries to see what’s going on.

Another cool feature is the concept of a human-readable account name with multiple keys for various purposes. Want to allow another account to execute a function call on your smart contract? Dole out a key! To visualize this aspect of NEAR, you may visit our Wallet to see this behavior in action.

The elements cited above are fun pieces of tech to tinker with at ETHDenver, but there’s a bigger picture. NEAR’s vision is to enable the builders to build the open web together. It starts with a strong foundation: a solid VM, an extensible and future-proof plan for smart contracts, fun languages to write in, access keys with variable permissions, libraries that speak to JSON-RPC, and most importantly a team mindset inclusive to all. We invite you into the fold for all of it.

What are NEAR’s bounties? 
Use the NEAR <> ETH Bridge
Build an application that uses the NEAR <> ETH Bridge to make calls to Ethereum contracts from a NEAR smart contract
Prize: $1500
Resources:https://near.ai/bridge
Deploy an EVM-based smart contract to NEAR
Deploy a Solidity or Vyper contract to NEAR, and use the NEAR Wallet in your frontend to call the contract’s functions.
Prize: $1500
Resources:https://near.ai/near-evm
Use cross-contract calls in Rust
Write a smart contract in Rust that makes a cross-contract call. This can be from one NEAR contract to another (in Rust or AssemblyScript), or to an Ethereum contract using the ETH Bridge!
Prize: $1500
Resources:https://near.ai/cross-contract
How can I meet the team at ETHDenver?
NEAR has four team members on the ground at ETHDenver. We’re excited to bring our engineers, product, and accelerator team together with developers. On Thursday, February 13th, Sasha is hosting a discussion, “Into the Open Web” at #ETHDenver, and Kendall will be chatting about the future of the Web at Distributed Networks Summit. Or come chat with us Friday, February 14th at 11:30am at NEAR’s Protocols & Interoperability ETHDenver Workshop. Kendall and Illia will be talking about how to write, deploy and interact with Rust, TypeScript, and Solidity smart contracts on NEAR: a sharded, Proof-of-Stake public blockchain with a WebAssembly-based runtime. 

NEAR also supports EVM smart contracts (Solidity, Vyper), and the use of Ethereum assets via a trustless, bidirectional NEAR <> Ethereum bridge.

If you miss our workshops, you can look for Kendall (@kendallc), Mike (@mikedotexe), or lllia from our epic engineering team, or grab Sasha (@AliaksandrH) if you want to talk product-market fit. NEAR will also have ongoing online support; the team will be active on the ETHDenver Discord as well as NEAR’s own channels. NEAR’s primary developer support channels are Discord and the NEAR Forum. We encourage you to say hello to the team and ask questions!

Register for the ETHDenver Hackathon here!

Links:

http://near.ai/economics

Follow @NEARprotocol on Twitter to get notified about new content we post, and get the latest updates on the development of the protocol.
SailGP Launches Digital Collectibles Series on NEAR
COMMUNITY
June 15, 2022
SailGP, one of the world’s fastest-growing sports properties, is launching its first ever digital collectibles range, as part of its multi-year partnership with the NEAR Foundation. The collectibles series sits within the NEAR Foundation’s broader partnership with SailGP to reimagine sport for fans by harnessing Web3 technology.  

Four digital collections will be released, each based on values shared by SailGP and NEAR.

“Collecting sporting memorabilia has always been a key part of fan enjoyment and engagement but now, through our first ever SailGP x NEAR digital collectables, fans will not only be able to own a piece of history but also access unique experiences,” says Daisy Vollans, SailGP head of digital and engagement. 

SailGP’s first NFT collection
The first collection will be focused around SailGP and NEAR’s shared ambition for a more sustainable future. Two of SailGP’s striking F50-inspired Earth Day posters will be turned into NFTs (non-fungible tokens), with 10 editions released of each artwork. In tandem, fans who buy one of these 20 NFTs will be gifted a sustainably made t-shirt adorned with one of the Earth Day artworks. 

The second collection will be themed around SailGP’s events and local communities and will utilize the locally designed artworks that currently feature in SailGP’s City Collection merchandise. Chicago based designer Justin Van Genderen is the first to feature with his striking design highlighting the sport and speed of the F50 while showcasing the Chicago city skyline.

The third collection will be photo-driven and fan-focused, with SailGP’s award winning photography forming the basis of exclusive digital artworks. The collection will champion the action-packed, edge-of-your-seat moments from SailGP’s racing, from capsizes and collisions to neck-and-neck rivalries right up to the finish line. 

Finally, the fourth collection will act as an entry point for fans into SailGP’s digital collectables. The NEAR X SailGP F50 icon – created to drive engagement on twitter as part of a shared Season 3 #F50 hashflag campaign – will be distributed to anyone who engages with SailGP by attending an event, downloading the NEAR wallet or completing SailGP’s new single sign across SailGP platforms later this year. 

“When sports leagues like Major League Baseball dove into digital collectibles, they launched with charitable use cases that grabbed the attention of industry-advocates like Tyler Winklevoss. SailGP has taken those inspirations and is elevating them to be core to its fan experience – not just bolting on another commercial opportunity. SailGP’s tech innovations, built on climate-neutral NEAR, are inspiring both global and local communities from their iconic locations, like Navy Pier,” says Chris Ghent, NEAR Foundation global head of brand strategy and partnerships. 

How to start your NEAR x SailGP journey
SailGP’s digital collectables journey will begin in earnest in Chicago with an exclusive exhibition curated by the @imnotArt gallery – Chicago’s first physical NFT gallery. NFTs from all four collections will be on display, while fans will also have the chance to purchase a SailGP NFT for the first time. 

The 60 NFTs created from SailGP’s Chicago City Collection artwork – which will come a piece of official merchandise – will be available to buy, while a image from entertainment collect will be issued to anyone who creates a NEAR digital wallet across the event weekend or uses the QR code to enter the gallery. After two days at the gallery, the collection will move over to the SailGP Event Village at Navy Pier and be on display in the Ballroom.

To stay up to date on SailGP’s partnership with NEAR, sign up for the NEAR newsletter, and be sure to follow the Foundation on social media. 
August in Review: Javascript SDK, NEAR Digital Collective Launch, and NEARCON Updates
COMMUNITY
August 30, 2022
The summer is drawing to a close but things are really ramping up all around the NEAR ecosystem. The month of August saw the Javascript SDK release, NEAR Digital Collective’s launch, new NEARCON details, and more. 

Let’s have a peek around the NEAR ecosystem to what’s been surfacing. From NEAR Foundation’s own initiatives, ecosystem projects, and beyond, it’s been a month of building toward the future.

Ecosystem Panel: The Future of Gaming and Web3
The August Ecosystem Town Hall tackled one of Web3’s most fun and interesting topics: Gaming. David Morrison, NEAR’s Community Engagement Lead, hosted a panel of seasoned gaming veterans building on NEAR. Guests included Lisa Sterbakov of Armored Kingdom, Aliaksandr “Sasha” Hudzilin from Human Guild, and Vivi Lin of Octopus Network.

The discussion ranged widely from how gaming can be a critical force in blockchain mass adoption to future in-game economic models that will better empower players. And there was one common theme amongst the panelists. The best of blockchain gaming is yet to come, as designers and developers strive to build AAA experiences for Web3.


Foundation News
With NEARCON fast approaching, it’s been all hands on deck at NEAR Foundation. Ticket sales rose throughout the month, and CoinDesk jumped aboard as NEARCON’s Official Media Partner. Elsewhere, the latest installment In the NEAR Future hit Twitter Spaces. Featuring Mintbase CEO Nate Geier, the AMA explored NFTs, digital collectibles, and Web3 marketplaces ahead of NEARCON. 

The NEAR Javascript SDK was also released this past month, creating a more seamless onboarding experience for Web2 developers looking to transition into Web3. With over 20 million Javascript developers worldwide —making it the most popular coding language—even more dapps will be coming to the NEAR ecosystem in the future. To help spread the word, Pagoda team members attended ETH Toronto on August 8th through 10th, with Austin Baggio and Ben Kurrek hosting a JS SDK workshop.


This past month also marked the beginning of some major changes in NEAR ecosystem governance. Following co-founder Illia Polosuhkin’s talk at EthCC in Paris, NEAR Foundation announced that it would assist in creating the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC). The NDC is a new framework and implementation plan for an ecosystem-wide self-governance treasury. Its main purpose will be to further decentralize NEAR’s ecosystem governance by moving decision-making on-chain for a more resilient, fair, and transparent community.

Ecosystem News
August was also an incredible month for the NEAR ecosystem, led by Sweatcoin’s $13M funding round to further tomorrow’s movement economy. Built on NEAR, Sweatcoin is now the most downloaded health and fitness app in the world. This most recent funding round includes a private token sale to accelerate the Sweat Economy’s migration to Web3.

The ecosystem also surpassed 750 projects being built on NEAR. Growth is certainly accelerating, going from 100 projects to 750 in less than a year. At this pace, it wouldn’t be a surprise to break the 1,000-project mark before the holiday season. Amidst this ecosystem growth, Coinbase added NEAR to its roadmap this past month.

It was also an eventful month for all things Aurora. The team successfully fended off an attempted hack on the network, halting the attack in only 31 seconds. Aurora has also been included in the latest Brave desktop update as a preloaded chain for all Brave Wallet users. The Aurora Vietnam Community is also now up and running, furthering the Foundation’s goal of fostering a thriving, global ecosystem.

There were several key NFT happenings, headlined by Mintbase launching its grants program that will help foster growth by helping NFT projects bootstrap on NEAR. And Playible —an NFT fantasy sports platform built on the NEAR protocol—celebrated its first fantasy sports NFT launch this past month. The first NEAR-native omnichain NFT project was also announced in August, with Real Birds being announced as a grant recipient.

In terms of developer tooling, Chainstack announced that the platform will now support NEAR to more easily deploy, run, and manage nodes. WELLDONE Studio also released and presented its wallet and remix IDE plugin for devs looking to build on NEAR. Both Chainstack and WELLDONE demonstrate how the NEAR ecosystem is enhancing the developer experience month over month.

NEAR in the Press
NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin spoke with CoinTelegraph at Korean Blockchain Week (KBW) about the rollout of the JavaScript SDK, emphasizing that the 20 million worldwide JS developers can now foray into blockchain without significant skills re-tooling.

Forkast also reported that the NEAR Foundation shortlisted 20 candidates for its first-ever Women in Web3 Changemakers list. Ten winners will be selected via public vote ending on August 29th, conducted on the blockchain using NEAR wallets (more on this below). 

Marieke Flement, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, was also featured on the Forbes Technology Council where she gave her thoughts on managing the challenges of a decentralized workforce and the “Right to Disconnect.”

NEARCON: Apply for Hackathon, Vote for Women in Web3, and Join the Poster Hunt 
With NEARCON fast approaching, the NEAR Foundation is extremely thankful for all of the hackathon applications received to date. There are still some slots left, but you’ll want to apply as soon as possible via this application page. Selectees will receive free admission to NEARCON, a travel stipend in NEAR tokens, and an invite to the registration party on September 11th with fellow hackathon-ers.

Time is also ticking to vote for Women in Web3 Changemakers. You can vote via typeform or through a DAO. Votes will be counted equally but the typeform is a simpler option for those unfamiliar with DAO voting. To vote via DAO, click on the official Satori link, connect an existing NEAR wallet or create a new one. After claiming an NFT, head to the poll on AstroDAO and cast your vote! 

Finally, stay tuned for more details on the NEAR Poster Hunt in Lisbon. It’ll be like an IRL scavenger hunt mixed with Web3. Posters with QR codes will be scattered around the city, and people will be able to win prizes, collect POAPs, and more. The NEAR Poster Hunt will be one of the most fun and social events at NEARCON. So, keep your eyes peeled for details!


Grassroots Support Initiative Update – September 11, 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 11, 2023
As a follow up to the NEAR Foundation’s previous grassroots support post, we wanted to take a moment to share an update on our progress. On September 4th, we closed the form through which projects could request support until the NDC funding mechanism is live. Over the past two weeks, we have spoken to builders across the ecosystem to understand their needs and begin mapping out the different paths forward to ensure they receive the support they need. 

We have encountered a range of different requests and have been taking a holistic approach to understand the unique needs faced by each project and the resources available to help them achieve their goals moving forward. While financial support is only one part of this, there have been a number of questions about the range of options available, so we wanted to give everyone visibility into the next steps.

Projects looking for funding will first explore internal resources including the BD/Ecosystem success team and ad hoc advisory support via a 1-1 call with the Horizon team, as well as by working closely with the MarketingDAO, CreativesDAO, and DevHub. Projects that do not qualify through any of these routes will have the ability to go to an internal review process. 

To make sure the community voices are heard and involved in the process, members of the Governance Working Group (GWG) have collaborated with NEAR Foundation to define the criteria needed to receive financial support. The criteria the committee will use to make the selections are the following:

Is the project built on NEAR and live on mainnet?
Is there a current grant already in place? 
Are there a minimum 100 monthly active users?
Does the request cover a maximum of 3 months of runway?
This process should be completed within the coming two weeks, at which point the NEAR Foundation will provide a further update. In the meantime, if you have any questions you can always reach us at [email protected].


NEAR and Press Start Team to Level Up Web3 Gaming
COMMUNITY
December 9, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Press Start Capital, a seed stage venture fund focused on full-stack Web3 gaming, metaverse, and entertainment. This follows the Press Start x Orange DAO Web3 Fellowship announced earlier this year. 

With NEAR, Press Start is looking to identify, fund, and support the leading Web3 builders and creators of what it calls a “new Golden Age of Entertainment.” Press Start Capital will join NEAR’s network of partner funds. 

In this new partnership, information and industry insights-sharing between NEAR and Press Start will be vital. Press Start will provide investment and mentorship support to Web3 gaming and entertainment projects building on NEAR. Press Start and its portfolio companies will also have access to the Foundation and ecosystem’s vast network of fund partners—a critical piece in building the new era of gaming. Game developers that aren’t committed to a blockchain will have access to priority NEAR support to help build and ship their Web3 gaming apps and products.

Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, said:  “This is a fantastic partnership that will help us to attract the very best projects to our protocol. We look forward to leveraging this opportunity by working closely with Press Start to identify and support exceptional talent and to give creators the tools they need to build without limits on NEAR.”

Community front and center
Both NEAR and Press Start see the future of gaming as being community-driven. The partners are fully aligned in manifesting a world where players take part in the creation and ownership of the games, stories, and assets they cherish. 

“As crypto eats software and gaming eats culture, we believe now is the time to build a new Golden Age of Entertainment that will unleash a new generation of community-owned games, apps, and IP,” said Steven Chien, co-founder and General Partner at Press Start Capital. “We’re excited to collaborate with NEAR as a mission-aligned partner to support and grow a community of Web3 founders building community-driven products.”

With NEAR and Press Start, founders will help founders in a mutual learning environment. The partnership will also include deal flow sharing and community initiatives.

Press Start’s collaboration with NEAR partner OrangeDAO, a group of over 1,300 Y Combinator alumni, on a new fellowship is also part of this community-driven strategy. The fellowship featured participants building applications that will empower future Web3 users and communities.

Ten fellows completed a ten-week fellowship program designed to help Y Combinator alumni validate, build, and ship their next web3 project. Several fellows had closed a fundraising round and gained acceptance into top tier accelerators by the end of the fellowship program.   

Web3 gaming on NEAR: fast and infinitely scalable 
With the new NEAR and Press Start partnership, Web3 gaming developers can take full advantage of NEAR’s sharded, Proof-of-Stake (PoS), layer-one blockchain. Thanks to NEAR’s  unique Nightshade sharding implementation, gaming projects will join a dynamic ecosystem of 800+ active projects and over 125 DAOs, building on a protocol that is ever-expanding and decentralizing. 

Like the other developers, entrepreneurs, and creatives building on NEAR, Web3 gaming devs will have access to the NEAR community’s resources. From Web3 startup platform Pagoda to NEAR Education and other ecosystem players, gaming devs can tap into a vast web of Web3 technology and expertise. 

Future partnership opportunities
NEAR Foundation’s partnership with Press Start will evolve over time, combining the Foundation’s technological know-how with the VC fund’s investment and builder expertise. 

There is already potential for a co-sponsored accelerator and events centered on Web3 gaming and entertainment.  
Decentralized Storage for dApp Developers
DEVELOPERS
December 8, 2021
While security, speed, and reliable data records are key elements in developing a decentralized app (dApp) in the Web3 ecosystem, the complexity of decentralization is a critical factor that can drive the cost and effort required in deployment.

Standard dApp development consists of a Web 2 tech stack for the front-end and state management handled by smart contracts deployed on the blockchain for the back-end. With this hybrid approach, it can be tricky to determine what to store on and off-chain. For example, keeping all of the files for a front-end’s UI on-chain is less efficient and cost-effective when compared to existing SQL or no-SQL solutions. However, there are times when larger data files will need to be stored in a permanent decentralized manner (such as NFTs that contain large images or songs), so the content is always accessible to its owner.

As a new developer in the crypto space, your first approach to storing various media files might be to use the same blockchain where the smart contract is being deployed. However, the storage cost for large amounts of binary data on the blockchain can be prohibitive and ultimately not practical.

To solve this problem, teams of developers have been working on creating decentralized storage solutions focused on storing large amounts of data at a competitive price. These solutions allow dApp developers to maintain a decentralized infrastructure that secures the availability of your data when needed. Arweave, IPFS, and Sia’s Skynet are three great examples of such projects, and we are excited to share ways you can integrate their platforms into your project.

The DevRel team has published a new article on Decentralized Storage Solutions, that gives you a brief introduction to each solution and an integration example so you can quickly try them out and find the optimal solution for your project.

At NEAR we are committed to helping create a healthy Web3 ecosystem where everyone can build projects that integrate different technologies, solutions, and networks that fit their needs. We want developers and users to choose which tool is the best for the job and ensure interoperability is maintained.

Have any questions, comments, or feedback? 
Join us on Discord and let us know in the #development channels. 
We also host daily Office Hours live Monday – Friday 11AM – 12PM PT (6PM – 7PM UTC), where the DevRel team will answer any questions you may have!
NEAR at Collision: Expand into the Open Web with the Blockchain Operating System
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 24, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that NEAR is heading to the 2023 edition of Collision from June 26-29 in Toronto, Ontario. 

NEAR experts will be at Collision to demonstrate how brands and companies can expand into the open web using the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The BOS is  an industry-first category: a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences with any blockchain — all in one browser. 

Here is what to expect from NEAR at Collision 2023. 

The BOS and NEAR Horizon at Collision 
If you saw NEAR’s big announcement out of ETHDenver and Collision, NEAR isn’t just a Layer 1 blockchain. It’s a Blockchain Operating System that makes it easy to use the tools you already know to build apps that engage users, while fostering an open web free from centralized platforms.

Also appearing at Collision will be NEAR Horizon — NEAR Foundation’s new Web3 startup support platform. Meet with the Horizon team and get started on the Web3 funding and building journey.  

NEAR speakers at Collision
At Collision, catch a number of exciting NEAR speakers and sessions. 

Illia Polosukhin – Co-founder, NEAR Protocol; CEO, Pagoda

Elad Gil – Investor

Kendall Cole – Founder, Proximity

Laura Cunningham – General Manager, NEAR Horizon

Joyce Yang – Founder, Global Coin Research

Steven Chien –  Founder, Press Start Capital

Paul Hsu – CEO & Founder, Decasonic

Stay updated on the complete slate of confirmed speakers at near.org/Collision. 

NEAR @ Collision
NEAR Horizon pitch and networking event
NEAR Horizon will be hosting another Pitch and networking event with VC partners the evening of June 27th. Applications to pitch are being accepted now through June 7th. 
Overview of Layer 2 approaches: Plasma, State Channels, Side Chains, Roll Ups
DEVELOPERS
June 20, 2019
With the increasing adoption of blockchains, and still very limited capacity of modern protocols, many so-called Layer 2 protocols emerged, such as State Channels, Side Chains, Plasma and Roll Ups. This blog post dives relatively deeply into the technical details of each approach and their benefits and disadvantages.

The core idea behind any Layer 2 solution is that it allows several parties to securely interact in some way without issuing transaction on the main chain (which is the Layer 1), but still to some extent leveraging the security of the main chain as the arbitrator.

Different layer 2 solutions have different properties, advantages and disadvantages. The L2 solution that I personally find the most exciting is Roll Ups, which we will cover last.

Thanks to Ben Jones (Plasma Group), Tom Close (Magmo), Petr Korolev and Georgios Konstantopoulos for reviewing an early draft of this post.

State Channels
As a good introductory example of Layer 2 solutions, let’s first consider simple payment channels. Payment channels are one of the most adopted Layer 2 solutions today. Lightning Network, for example, is based on Payment Channels.

Payment channels is a specific instantiation of a more generic concept called State Channels. A good overview of the history of the state channels can be found here. State channel is a protocol between a fixed set of participants (often two) that want to transact securely between themselves off-chain, in case of payment channel specifically exchange money. The protocol for the payment channel goes as follows: two participants first both deposit some money, say $10 worth of Bitcoin, on-chain using two on-chain transactions. After the money is deposited, both participants can instantaneously send each other money without interaction with the main chain by sending to each other state updates in a form of [turn_number, amount, signature], for as long as the balances of both participants remain non-negative.

Once one of the participants wants to stop using the payment channel, they perform a so-called “exit”: submit the last state update to the main chain, and the latest balances are transferred back to the two parties that initiated the payment channel. The main chain can validate the validity of the state update by verifying signatures and final balances, thus making it impossible to try to exit from an invalid state.

The problem with the exits is that the main chain cannot validate that the sequence of the transactions submitted is full, i.e. that no more state updates happened after those that are presented. For example, consider the following scenario:

From the state in which Alice has $11 and Bob has $9 Alice sends a state update to Bob that transfers him $7, waits for him to provide her some service for those $7, and then exits with the state update that was before she sent $7 to Bob. The main chain cannot know that an extra State Update existed, and thus sees the exit as valid.

The way to get around it is to have some time after the exit was initiated for Bob to challenge the exit, by providing a state update that is signed by Alice, and has a higher turn_number than the one that Alice submitted. In the example above Bob can submit the last state update that transfers $7 to him from Alice during the challenge period, and claim his $16 instead of just $9 in the attempted exit by Alice.

While the construction with the exit game is now secure, it presents a major inconvenience: the participants might be forced to wait for a rather long period of time to exit, usually 24 hours, and need to frequently (at least once per exit period) monitor the main chain to make sure their counterparty doesn’t try to exit using some past state. A technique called WatchTowers can be used to delegate watching the network to a 3rd party. Read more about watchtowers here and here.

To remove the necessity to wait for the exit timeout if both parties collaborate many implementations have a concept of “collaborative close”, in which participants can sign a “conclusion proof”, and the presence of such a conclusion proof allows the other party to exit without waiting for the challenge period.

The payment channel can be generalized to arbitrary state transitions, not just payments, for as long as the main chain can validate the correctness of such transitions. For example, a game of chess can be played using state channels, by players submitting their moves as transactions to each other.

Despite the inconveniences listed above, State Channels are widely used today for payments, games and other use cases, due to their immediate finality (once the counterparty confirms the receipt of a state update it is final), no fees except for those paid for the deposit and exit, and relative simplicity of the construction.

While the high level definition of the state channels is relatively simple, accounting for all the corner cases, so that no party can illegally take money from the other party, is a relatively complex task. See this whiteboard session with Tom Close from Magmo in which we dive very deeply into the intricacies of building secure state channels.

State Channel Networks
Another disadvantage of the state channels as described above is that they only exist between two participants. You can have constructions with N of N multisignatures that allow multiple parties maintain a state channel between themselves, but it would be desirable to have a layer 2 solution with properties that State Channels have, that allows parties that do not have a channel open between them directly to still transact.

Interestingly, it is possible to construct the state channels in such a way that if Alice has a state channel with Bob, and Bob has a state channel with Carol, then Alice can securely and atomically send money to Carol via Bob. With this an entire network of state channels can be built, allowing a large number of participants to transact with each other, without maintaining a connection between every pair of participants.

This is the idea behind the Lightning network. In our whiteboard session with Dan Rabinson on Interledger we dived pretty deep into Lightning Networks design, check it out here.

Side Chains
The core idea behind a simple side chain is to have a completely separate blockchain, with its own validators and operators, that has bridges to transfer assets to and from the main chain, and optionally snapshots the block headers to the main chain to prevent forks.

The snapshots can provide security against forks even when the validators of the side chain collude and try to fork out:

On the figure above the side chain produces blocks, and snapshots them to the main chain. The snapshot is just the hash of the block that is stored on the main chain. The fork choice rule on the side chain is such that the chain cannot be canonical if it doesn’t build on top of the latest snapshotted block. On the figure above even if the validators of the side chain collude and try to produce a longer chain A’<-B’<-C’ after producing block A to perform a double spend, if block A was snapshotted to the main chain, the longer chain will be ignored by the side chain participants.

If a participant wants to move assets from the main chain to the side chain, they “lock” the assets on the main chain, and provide a proof of the lock on the side chain. To unlock the assets on the main chain, they initiate an exit on the side chain, and provide a proof of the exit once it is included in the side chain block.

However, despite the fact that the side chain can leverage the security of the main chain to prevent forks, the validators can still collude and perform a different kind of attack called Invalid State Transition. The idea behind the attack is that the main chain cannot possibly validate all the blocks that the side chain produces (it would invalidate the purpose of the side chain, that is to offload the main chain from validating each transaction), and thus if more than 50% or 66% (depending on the construction) of the validators collude, they can create a completely invalid block that steals money from other participants, snapshot such a block, initiate an exit for the stolen funds and complete it.

We wrote a great overview of the invalid state transition problem in the context of sharding here. This problem maps to side chains one to one, in which case side chains would correspond to shards in the overview, and the main chain would correspond to the beacon chain.

The article linked above also covers some ways to get around invalid state transitions, but those ways are not implemented in practice today, and most side chains are built with the assumption that more than 50% (or 66% depending on construction) of validators never get corrupted.

Plasma
Plasma is a construction that enables “non-custodial” sidechains, that is, even if all sidechain (commonly called “plasma chain”) validators collude to conduct any type of adversarial behavior, the assets on the plasma chain are safe, and can be exited to the mainchain.

The simplest construction of plasma, commonly referred to as Plasma Cash, only operates with simple non-fungible tokens, and only allows transferring a particular constant amount in each transaction. It operates in the following way:


Each block contains a Sparse Merkle Tree that in its leafs contains the change to the ownership of a particular token. For example, on the above figures there are four total tokens in circulation, and in the block B tokens 1, 3 and 4 do not change hands (there’s nil in the leaf), while token 2 now belongs to Alice. If block D then contained a transaction signed by Alice that transfers the block to Bob, then the same token 2 in block D would have the transaction from Alice to Bob.

To transfer a token to someone one needs to provide the full history of the token across all the blocks that were produced on the plasma chain since the token was moved to the chain until the transaction. In the example above if Bob wants to transfer the token to Carol, then a transaction (depicted at the bottom) would include one entry per block, with a merkle proof of change of ownership or lack thereof in each block.

Plasma chain snapshots the headers of all the blocks to the main chain, and thus Carol can validate that all the merkle proofs correspond to the hashes snapshotted to the main chain, and that the change of ownership in each block is valid. Once such transaction ends up in a block of the plasma chain, the corresponding entry with Carol is written into the merkle tree, and Carol is now the owner.

Since it is assumed that the Plasma operator can be corrupted at any moment, the exits cannot be instantaneous (since the hash of the state snapshotted by the plasma operator cannot be trusted), and an exit game is required. Even for such relatively simple construction that we discussed above the exit game is pretty complex. In an episode of Whiteboard Series with Georgios Konstantopoulos from Loom Network, that goes very deep into the technical details of Plasma Cash, he presents the exit game that was used at that point by Loom Network, and we find an example where by withholding the data the operator can either steal tokens from an honest participant, or have an ability to execute a relatively painful grieving attack (see the video starting from 41:40 for the details). Later Dan Robinson proposed a simpler exit game that addressed the issue, but again an example that reorders blocks was found that broke it.

Overall, the biggest advantage of Plasma is the security of the tokens that are stored on the plasma chain. An honest participant can be certain that they will be able to withdraw their tokens no matter what of the following events occur: plasma operator creates an invalid state transition (before or after the honest participant received their tokens), plasma operator withholds the produced blocks, plasma operator completely stops producing blocks. In all these scenarios, or in general under any circumstances, the tokens cannot be lost.

The disadvantages are the necessity to provide the full history of the token when it is transferred, and the complexity of the exit games (and in general reasoning about them).

For more technical details see the episode with Loom Network mentioned above, as well as the episode with Ben Joines from Plasma Group, in which he talks about Plasma CashFlow, a more sophisticated flavor of Plasma Cash that allows transacting in arbitrary denominations.

Roll Ups
As I mentioned when discussing the side chains, one of the ways to get around the Invalid State Transition problem in side chains is to provide a cryptographic proof of correctness of each state transition. The particular instantiation of this approach presently built by Matter Labs is called Roll Ups, and was initially proposed on ethresear.ch by Barry White Hat here.

The Roll Up is effectively a side chain, in the sense that it produces blocks, and snapshots those blocks to the main chain. The operators in the Roll Up, however, are not trusted. Thus it is assumed that at any point the operators can attempt to stop producing blocks, produce an invalid block, withhold data, or attempt some other adversarial behavior.

Similar to regular side chains, the operators cannot produce fork that precedes any block snapshotted to the main chain, so once a block on the main chain that contains the snapshot is finalized, so is the block on the Roll Up chain that is snapshotted.

To get around the state validity issue, each time the Roll Up operator snapshots the block, they provide a snark of a list of transactions which performs a valid state transition. Consider the example below:

There are three blocks on the roll up chain: A, B and C, snapshotted correspondingly to blocks X, Y and Z on the main chain. At each point in time the main chain doesn’t need to store anything besides the last merkle root of the state of the roll up chain. When the block A is snapshotted, a transaction is sent to the main chain that contains:

The merkle root h(S2) of the new state S2;
Either the full state S2, or all the transactions in the block.
A zk-SNARK that attests that there’s a valid series of transactions that move from a state hash of which is equal to h(S1) to a state hash of which is equal to h(S2), and that the applied transactions match the data provided in (2).
The transaction verifies that the zk-SNARK is correct, and stores the new merkle root h(S2) on chain. Importantly, it doesn’t store the full content of A in the state, but it naturally is kept in the call data, so can be fetched in the future.

The fact that the full block is stored in the call data is somewhat a bottleneck, but it provides a solution to the data availability issue. With the current Matter Labs implementation it takes one minute to compute the snark for a transaction (which can be done in parallel for multiple transactions), each transaction costs 1K gas on-chain, and occupies 9 bytes of call data on the main chain.

With this construction the malicious operator cannot do any harm besides going offline:

It cannot withhold the data, since the transaction that snapshots a block must have the full block or the full state passed as an argument, and validates that the content is correct, and then such content is persisted in the mainnet calldata.
It cannot produce a block with an invalid state transition, since it must submit a zk-SNARK that attests to the correctness of the state transition, and such a zk-SNARK cannot be obtained for an invalid block;
It cannot create a fork since the fork choice rule always prefers the chain that contains the last snapshotted block, even if a longer chain exists.
While the amount of storage in the call data is not improved significantly with this L2 solution, the amount of the actual writable storage consumed is constant (and is very small), and the gas cost of on-chain verification is only 1k gas/tx, which is 21x lower than an on-chain transaction.

Importantly, assuming the Roll Up operators cooperate, the exit is instantaneous, and doesn’t involve an exit game. These properties combined make the Roll Up chains one of the most exciting L2 solutions today.

Outro
I work on a sharded Layer 1 protocol called Near. There’s a common misconception that sharded Layer 1 protocols compete with Layer 2 as solutions for blockchain scalability. In practice, however, it is not the case, and even when sharded protocols become live, Layer 2 solutions will still be actively used.

Designed for specific use cases, Layer 2 will remain cheaper and provide higher throughput, even when Layer 1 blockchains scale significantly better.

This write-up is part of an ongoing effort to create high quality technical content about blockchain protocols and related topics. We run a video series in which we talk to the founders and core developers of many protocols, we have episodes withEthereum Serenity,Cosmos,Polkadot,Ontology,QuarkChain and many other protocols. All the episodes are conveniently assembled into a playlist here.

Follow me on twitter to get updated when we publish new write-ups and videos.
NEARCON Highlights
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 12, 2022
NEARCON 2022 is at full tilt here in the gorgeous city of Lisbon, where the NEAR ecosystem is on full display, with over 2,000 people in attendance. With a distinct carnival atmosphere, NEARCON has been a vibrant, interactive showcase of the ecosystem’s diverse and inspiring talent and creativity. Beyond the myriad of engaging talks and projects demos, there have also been parties, an IRL hackathon, food trucks from around the world, and much more

NEARCON has also seen a bevy of exciting announcements, including some new ecosystem funds, a major Nightshade sharding milestone, and more. 

Let’s take a quick look at everything that is new on NEAR from NEARCON. 

A number of other announcements will be rolling out over the course of NEARCON, so stay tuned for those tomorrow. 

Switchboard Brings Permissionless Oracle Protocol to NEAR
Switchboard Labs launches its permissionless, customizable oracle devnet implementation on NEAR Protocol. The protocol allows developers to build general-purpose data feeds such as price, sports or weather data, opening up a world of new possibilities for developers. Being a permissionless oracle protocol, Switchboard allows a developer to build their own data feed within minutes and have complete customizability, and management over their own feeds.

NearPay brings debit cards creating another bridge between crypto and IRL
NearPay, the bridge between the fiat and crypto world has taken another step forward in helping users access their crypto wherever they are with the launch of a physical debit card. A virtual card is already working in the EU and the UK, and the physical card is due to start delivery during the autumn. On top of that, the NearPay team has plans to expand into the US and Asia over the next 12 months. 
Pagoda launches flagship product for dApp developers on NEAR
Pagoda, the easiest Web3 startup platform and a major contributor to the NEAR Protocol, announced today the launch of their flagship developer product. The Pagoda Console provides a robust set of integrated tools to streamline the dApp development experience from a single place. 

Pagoda supercharges existing dApps built on NEAR and accelerates the development of new NEAR dApps. Developers, innovators, and founders are empowered with a comprehensive toolset to build, deploy, improve, manage, test, monitor, analyze and interact with their dApps. 


Regional Hubs Launch in India and Vietnam
At NEARCON, not one but two regional hubs were announced: India and Vietnam.

The regional hub in India is dedicated to blockchain talent development and innovation. NEAR’s involvement in the country aims to move the dial towards a sustainable and inclusive approach to blockchain development, and a strong group of potential emerging leaders already exists in the region.

In Vietnam, meanwhile, NEAR has partnered with premier venture capital fund GFS Ventures to launch a hub dedicated to ongoing blockchain innovation, education and talent development throughout the region. Vietnam’s digital economy is booming with the pandemic seeing eight million new digital consumers and a doubling of new startups in the country. The nation is actively promoting digital transformation and development and also ranks 5th out of 154 countries in the Global Cryptocurrency Acceptance Index. However, Vietnam tops global rankings when it comes to the percentage of crypto ownership, as one in five of its people (or 20.3 per cent) own crypto.


Fayyr Launches First NFT Marketplace on NEAR for Social Impact Organizations
Fayyr provides a unique online marketplace for users to support social impact causes and artists at the same time. Artists upload their creations to Fayyr and earmark a percentage of the proceeds support an impact organization of their choosing. 

Founded by a professor and two students from the University of Waterloo, Fayyr’s vision is to empower global participation in an environment that supports social good using emerging blockchain technology. The team at Fayyr is addressing a gap in the current NFT market by providing a space for charities, non-profits, and social impact organizations to participate in the crypto space through donations from NFT purchases. 

NEAR to Form Community Working Group on Ecosystem Governance (NDC)
NEAR is thrilled to be reaching a new milestone on the road to decentralization by creating a new framework for an ecosystem-wide self-governance treasury called the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC). The purpose of the NDC is to shift decision-making to the blockchain itself, making the NEAR community more resilient, transparent, and fair. 

This working group will be led and shaped by the NEAR community and will take the next steps necessary to launch and implement the NDC framework. This process, now being launched, aims to serve as a model for the wider Web3 ecosystem for the creation and implementation of truly decentralized, on-chain governance.

Sustainable Learn2Earn with “Coinbase Earn”
Along with being the world’s leading blockchain for developers, with its low fees, high speeds, and infinite scalability, NEAR has always championed the importance of education and sustainability in its mission toward mass adoption of Web3. 

Now, in a new, exciting partnership with Coinbase, one of the world’s largest digital currency exchanges, those values will take center stage in Coinbase Earn, a new program aimed at educating users about NEAR and the utility of its native token. 

The program will be funded through NEAR staking rewards—a first-of-its-kind, sustainable approach to help users learn about the tokenomics of the NEAR ecosystem, and what makes NEAR the best entry point to Web3.
Women Make Web3
Inclusion and accessibility are at the heart of NEAR Foundation’s mission. Partnering with Forkast, a global digital media platform focused on Web3, NEAR is thrilled to unveil the winners of the inaugural Women in Web3 Changemakers.

In total 1,167 votes were tallied for 180 nominations. Of the nominees, eleven were selected (ten + one tie) and it will be a joy to honor them publicly at NEARCON.

Here are the names of the 2022 Changemakers listed in alphabetical order:

Amy Soon, Founder,  Blu3 DAO
Bianca Lopes, Identity Advocate and Investor
Deborah Ojengbede, CEO, AFEN Blockchain
Erikan Obotetukudo, Founder and General Partner, Audacity
Lauren Ingram, Founder, Women of Web3
Medha Parlikar, Co-founder, Casperlabs
Oluchi Enebeli, Nigeria’s first female blockchain engineer, founder Web3Ladies
Sian Morson, Founder and Editor of TheBlkChain
Tammy Kahn, Co-founder and Co-CEO of FYEO
Tricia Wang, Co-founder and lead Crypto Research and Design Lab (CRADL) at CISA 
Wendy Diamond, Web3 Impact Investor, LDP Ventures, CEO/Founder Women’s Entrepreneurship Day Organization (WEDO)/#ChooseWOMEN
CEO of NEAR Foundation Marieke Flament said: “Together we can inspire one another, become each other’s role models and level the playing field for the next generation of women.” 

Selected by public vote, these extraordinary and diverse women hail from all corners of the globe. They are founders, investors, CEOs, engineers, and so much more. “This inaugural list of these incredible eleven Changemakers,” writes Angie Lau, CEO, editor-in-chief, and co-founder of Forkast, “celebrates the trajectory of our collective story. We can’t wait to tell their stories, and share them with the world.” 

Tether Finds a New Home at NEAR 
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new and important partnership with Tether (“USD₮”). The addition of Tether to NEAR’s rapidly growing ecosystem is a major moment for both parties and will be crucial to an increasing presence in DeFi ecosystems. 

“We’re excited to launch USD₮ on NEAR, offering its community access to the first, most stable, and trusted stablecoin in the digital token space,” says Paolo Ardoino, CTO at Tether Operations Limited. Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation, adds “We look forward to seeing what Tether will achieve with the launch of USD₮ and the vital role it will play in shaping the future of finance and the digital economy.”

For more information on how the stablecoin works, head over to Tether. 

NEAR Foundation announces partnership with Few and Far to grow the NEAR NFT ecosystem 
Few and Far, the next-generation NFT marketplace built on NEAR Protocol, has been awarded a grant by the NEAR Foundation — and a partnership to significantly increase the advancement of NFTs across the ecosystem. 

“We are thrilled to support Few and Far’s mission to provide seamless NFT minting solutions and an easy-to-use marketplace for the NEAR ecosystem and beyond,” says Robbie Lim, GM, Partners & International at NEAR. 

“The NEAR Foundation embraces the digital asset revolution and the importance of laying the foundations for web3 gaming, the metaverse economy, and much more.”

Nightshade Sharding Phase 1 is live 
On NEARCON Day 1, there was some major Nightshade sharding news. Pagoda, the Web3 startup platform and contributor to NEAR Protocol, announced the launch of Sharding Phase 1—a major technical milestone that increases the number of validators, improves decentralization, and bolsters the network’s resilience. 

This is great news for anyone building or creating on NEAR, the network for creating without limits. Sharding Phase 1 is a significant step toward network decentralization and scaling capacity toward billions of transactions. And it will do this without any disruptions for developers, entrepreneurs, end users, and token holders. 

This launch is the second part of a four-phase plan to implement Nightshade, a novel sharding design that enables an almost infinitely automated scalable blockchain. Phase 1 follows less than a year from the launch of Phase 0, which marked the very beginning of sharding on the NEAR network. 

Pagoda said Nightshade’s subsequent phases are expected to be complete in 2023.

NEAR and Caerus launch a fund for creators
NEAR Foundation also had some exciting news for creators. The Foundation announced a new strategic partnership with Caerus, a recently launched investment firm, to help revolutionize how Web3 intersects with culture and entertainment. 

The partnership will see the creation of a $100M venture capital fund to support the development of next-generation platforms, marketplaces, and apps that showcase a range of creators, talent, IP owners and their communities. The Venture Lab, the partnership’s first investment, will be an incubator for creators and IP owners to build and launch projects. 

“We’re yet to imagine the plethora of use cases for how Web3 technologies will change how culture is experienced, entertainment is consumed, and value is distributed,” said Nathan Pillai, an executive at IMG/Endeavor. “And that was the genesis of Caerus: to be a catalyst for innovation that unleash projects in sport, music, film, TV, fashion, art and gaming which offer greater equity for all.”  

Stay tuned for more updates tomorrow!


NFT Marketplace for Hip Hop Heads Launches on NEAR
CASE STUDIES
June 19, 2021
Hey NEAR and Hip Hop Heads!
Get ready for our first consumer-facing NFT pop-up shop! This project sprang from the mind of Ed Young, one of the co-founders of the bible of hip-hop: The Source Magazine. He had this crazy idea, our team thought it was rad, and so we built it with him. What did we build? An epic collection of hip hop icons that you can own: Hip Hop Heads.

The Hip Hop Heads First Edition NFT Collection is a tribute to the history and culture of hip hop, 47 years after its inception in the Bronx, New York City. The collection features 103 animated portraits of famous figures from Hip Hop created by André LeRoy Davis for “The Last Word” feature of The Source over the last few decades.

The marketplace auction is officially live! Check out the entire collection at nft.hiphop. Every day from now, Juneteenth, until July 25, one new edition of each Hip-Hop Head will be added to the auction. Each Hip-Hop Head will start with a reserve price and the current bid is bonded with the item until it is outbid or the auction closes. If a bid is returned, fans can immediately use the returned credits to bid again.

Here’s the best part: cash rules everything around me. Fans can purchase these NFTs with a credit card. The marketplace offers an easier way to buy NFTs than ever before: no complicated onboarding, no passing through an exchange, just a simple, familiar purchasing experience made possible on NEAR. Check out the auction flow in the graphic below. And at the end of the auction on day 37, each winning buyer’s NFTs will display right in their NEAR wallet. Boom. It’s radical.


Another cool part: NFT royalties on NEAR are written right into the NFT code, which means that any secondary sales will automatically distribute royalties back to the creators, even if the NFT moves into different marketplaces. This is uniquely possible on NEAR thanks to the protocol’s contract-level NFT standard. On-chain, programmable royalties at the smart contract level put creative and financial power back in the hands of artists, and when you buy a NEAR NFT, you can be certain that the creators you love will continue to benefit from their work. A percentage of the royalties from the Hip Hop Heads NFT auctions and secondary sales will be gifted in perpetuity to the artists depicted or to their estates by Ed Young and André LeRoy Davis.


I’m so pumped to announce this launch. This carries a lot of personal weight for me. I remember the very first time I listened to “Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers).” Hip hop never let me go after that. It’s funny in some ways; imagine an angsty, small-town white kid, chasing his older brother and his surfer punk friends to the beach and singing every word to “C.R.E.A.M.” But in other ways, this was destined to happen because of the work of Ed Young at The Source. Hip hop has been a force pushing culture for almost 50 years, and now it is bridging into what’s been a somewhat fringe technology for the last five. This remix of crypto and hip hop is the first of what I’m sure will be many: a brand-new blend of culture and technology is now becoming possible.

We built this for people – fans – who know the feeling. Hip hop is so much more than music, and if you want to truly own a piece of its history, you should get on this! Try it out, start bidding, and let us know what you think. You only have 36 chambers…I mean days.
NEAR in May: 10m Wallets Surpassed, SailGP Hits the Waves, and More
COMMUNITY
May 27, 2022
May marked a month of milestones for the NEAR Foundation and ecosystem. While there was turbulence in the crypto markets, NEAR continued to forge ahead in onboarding new users, improving its technology, and developing partnerships.

Community and education were prominent themes this past month, with the first iteration of the IRL NEAR Hacker House commencing in Miami, Florida. Community Talks were also at the forefront, with sessions hosted by the NEAR community on identity and building digital Queer awareness. But things didn’t stop there. 

From breaking account growth barriers to making headlines with NEAR’s Kenya Regional Hub, here’s everything NEAR that went down in May. 

NEAR surpasses 10 million wallets 
The month of May marked a huge milestone for the NEAR ecosystem, as the protocol surpassed the 10 million wallets created mark. Crossing this threshold brings NEAR one step closer to fulfilling the Foundation’s vision of a creating a decentralized world where anyone can create, interact, and thrive.

NEAR Hacker House kicks off in Miami
From May 18-22, the inaugural NEAR Hacker House took place in one of the new crypto world capitols, Miami. It was a weeklong IRL event with co-working and creation taking place at the Spot Wynwood, jam-packed with technical, social, and community-driven events. The Hacker House was free to all who signed up to attend, with tracks in development, art, and marketing.

There was also in-person mentorship and guidance from key industry players in the NEAR ecosystem. Not to mention morning yoga sessions to encourage wellness and after hours social networking events.

The goal was to provide participants with a taste of Hacker Houses to come, with plans for others in Europe, Latin America, and Asia in the works. 

Community Talks workshops and Queer plurality
May was also a big month for NEAR Community Talks events and thought leadership. This included a pair of community building workshops with NEAR veterans and a series of talks on Queer diversity in the digital realm. 

The Community Building 101 workshop with NEAR community veterans took place during two sessions on May 7 and 15. Legedary NEAR builders like Rimberjack and Ozymandius gave a masterclass on starting communities from scratch and leveraging the right resources for success. 

The latter weeks of May then saw the beginning of NEAR’s Queer Diversity in the Digital Realm talks, with the first two events taking place on May 20 and 27. Gustavo Gustrava from TibiraDAO kicked off the series with a Community Talk on the basics of gender identity, intersectionality, and inclusive language.

Gustrava hosted the second session’s panel educating the community on experiences of homophobia and lesbophobia, and will be hosting the final two sessions in June. The Queer Diversity and Community Building 101 events showed the strength of NEAR Community Talks and will generate momentum for further workshops in the coming months.

NEAR x SailGP embarks on first race
The ground-breaking partnership between SailGP and NEAR lept into action in May. Season 3 of SailGP kicked off on May 14, with Team Australia capturing first place at the Bermuda Gran Prix. As the season progresses, SailGP and NEAR will work towards the goals finalising the outline of the DAO that will eventually take over the management of a sailing team, alongside the release of SailGP NFTs.

Once the SailGP DAO is firmly established using NEAR’s AstroDAO framework, fans will get the opportunity to join, own a portion of a team, and actively participate in decision-making and governance activities with real-world, competetive implications. The next phase will involve NFTs capturing previously unavailable SailGP moments and artwork for fans and collectors.

NEAR in the News
The launch of NEAR’s Kenya Regional Hub was one of the big headlines in May. NEAR partnered with local Kenyan blockchain community Sankore to establish a presence in Nairobi, furthering the NEAR Foundation’s goal of onboarding billions onto the blockchain and empowering individuals to live and prosper as they see fit.

“We are thrilled to be working with NEAR to educate and nurture talented individuals to become world-class blockchain developers,” Sankore founder Kevin Imani told Business Insider. “Our dream is to lead the way in blockchain innovations in providing solutions to Africa’s biggest problems. This hub is the next step in turning our shared vision into reality.” 

Marieke Flament, the CEO of NEAR Foundation, expressed to CoinTelegraph her excitement of the potential avenues and opportunities for the proliferation of blockchain solutions throughout Africa. Flament added that the establishment of the Kenya Regional Hub and partnership with Sankore provides NEAR with the opportunity to discover new talent within the region.

And according to the African Eye Report, the Regional Hub is already forging connections with local universities. To date, 77 students have registered for NEAR Certified Developer Workshops, seven in the NEAR Certified Analysts Workshops, and six local students have already been officially certified as NEAR developers.

In other news, Tamago, a Web3 streaming music and NFT platform built on NEAR, appeared on Billboard magazine’s website. Tamago announced that it raised a seed round of $1M from investors to help decentralize the music industry. As Billboard reported, Tamago will release exclusive NFTs and music drops from artists Felix Da Housecat, Paramida, and others.

CoinTelegraph also reported that Aurora, NEAR’s Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), will launch a $90 million fund to foster DeFi innovation on the NEAR Protocol. The fund will be launched in partnership with Proximity Labs in the form of 25 million Aurora tokens transferred from the DAO treasury to Proximity.

“Aurora DAO continues its mission to extend the Ethereum economy outside Ethereum blockchain,” said Aurora Labs founder Alex Shevchenko “This grant is a next big step in the development of the Aurora ecosystem and I’m happy that Proximity Labs accompanies us in this journey.”

ICYMI
May was NFT month for the NEAR Foundation, and towards that end published a 4-part series entitled “NFTs on NEAR.” The series highlighted a variety of NFT voices and experts to go beyond the hype of NFTs, educate on what makes NFT technology so powerful, and explore what the future holds.

If you want to learn more about what NFTs really mean, and exciting developments going on within the NEAR NFT ecosystem, be sure to check out May’s NFT month series below:

Beyond the Hype
A Deep Dive into Paras
Why NFT?
Where Will NFTs Go Next?
NEAR Foundation Launches Smart Contract Audit Program
DEVELOPERS
June 21, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that its Smart Contract Audit Program is live. This is an important step in expanding smart contract audits and enhancing ecosystem security. 

Many new projects request smart contract audits, necessitating an expansion of the number of auditors the Foundation has on retainer. This effort will make the process of choosing the most experienced and skilled auditors seamless. 

Let’s briefly explore what this means for auditors, projects, and the wider NEAR ecosystem. We’ll also explain how projects and auditors can access the program. 

Smart Contract Audits Program features
NEAR Foundation’s Smart Contract Audit Program comes with two main features—a new auditor ingest form and an audit request form. 

The New Auditor Ingest Form is the first step for interested smart contract auditors to illustrate their capabilities. It will be followed by a review process, when NEAR Foundation onboards new auditors as it expands the program. This will allow the Foundation to gain a better understanding of auditors, and have a detailed selection of auditors to choose from when deciding who to onboard.

By filling out the Smart Contract Audit Request form, projects building on NEAR can enter a queue for an audit. To file a request, your project must have a plan for funding the smart contract audit. The audit will be carried about by approved smart contract auditing firms, which NEAR Foundation has on retainer.

“The features are an important step in growing an ecosystem of trusted security partners, and ensuring availability of quality audits for NEAR-related audits,” says Isha Tyagi, NEAR Foundation’s Smart Contract Audits Program Manager. “This will also allow for the expansion and uplift of security companies in the NEAR ecosystem.” 

How to access Audit Program features
Potential auditors can find the Smart Contract Auditor ingest form here. Simply fill out your name, email, audit firm name, and other information, including past experience, capacity, and more. 

The smart contract audit request form can be found here. Fill out your name, email, and other relevant information. Be certain that your project is ready for an audit and, again, make sure you have a plan for funding your smart contract audit.
NEAR Foundation and Blumer: Pioneering Web3 Social Networking in Latin America
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 26, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a strategic partnership with Blumer, Colombia’s first Web3 social network. This collaboration signifies a new era in social media where active users are incentivized for their contributions, marking a transformative shift in the user-social platform dynamic.

By harnessing the strengths of blockchain technology and integrating them with the vibrant world of social networking, this partnership aims to challenge the status quo, prioritizing user privacy, compensation, and education. It’s a pioneering effort that not only champions user-centric design, but also sets the stage for a more inclusive digital future in Latin America.

Blumer: Revolutionizing Social Media through Blockchain Technology
Blumer, the first Web3 social network created and developed in Colombia, is an innovative platform that combines the functionality of traditional social networks with the advantages of blockchain technology. What makes Blumer so unique is that users are compensated for time spent on social media, distributing 18% of its advertising revenue back to its community.

“At Blumer, we believe in creating a social network for everyone,” says Ernesto Ruiz, Blumer’s CEO. “Our platform is designed to be a space where users can express themselves, connect with friends, and learn about the crypto world. We’re committed to creating a platform that is fun, engaging, and rewarding for everyone involved.” 

As Ruiz alludes to, Blumer users can monetize their time spent on social media through a variety of activities like consuming advertisements, selling NFTs, and performing crypto transactions. This not only promotes user engagement but emphasizes a novel approach to commercial growth, derived largely from businesses undertaking digital marketing.

Blumer isn’t just social media landscape but reshaping the whole digital economy narrative. Its unique approach of monetizing user engagement and activity on social media paves the way for a paradigm shift in user interaction and value creation. Let’s now delve into how this innovative platform aims to advance the adoption of Web3 in Latin America, one educated user at a time.

“This partnership is a significant step towards creating a fair and transparent social media ecosystem,” adds Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. “By combining the benefits of blockchain technology with social media, we are set to revolutionize how we interact on social platforms.“

Educating users and advancing Latin American Web3 adoption
Blumer also tackles the significant challenges facing cryptocurrency adoption in Latin America — namely, the lack of knowledge, understanding, and real market usability. Through ZVerso, its free crypto education platform, Blumer is empowering users with the knowledge to confidently engage within the Web3 ecosystem. 

By providing users with essential blockchain education and tools, Blumer is making strides toward democratizing access to Web3 technologies. This proactive educational initiative aligns with a broader vision for a more decentralized, inclusive, and user-centric digital future in Latin America.

With an online population of over 54 million people, Latin America and the Caribbean form the fifth-largest global market for social media. South America alone boasts over 30 million users. The NEAR and Blumer partnership provides a unique opportunity to tap into this thriving hub and bolster the adoption of Web3 solutions.

“With NEAR’s support, we are confident that we can achieve our vision and create a social network fit to thrive in tomorrow’s landscape,” Ruiz adds.

The collaboration between NEAR and Blumer signifies a pivotal stride towards fostering a fair, transparent, and user-centric social media ecosystem. As Blumer forges ahead with innovative advancements in decentralized social networking, the NEAR Foundation and ecosystem give one big “Like” to Blumer’s mission of a user-empowered social network.
Ich Bin Ein Berliner | August 23rd, 2019
COMMUNITY
August 23, 2019
Ich Bin Ein Berliner! | August 23rd

We’ve been talking to a lot of you all in Berlin during the Berlin Blockchain week! What a blast, and what a fun/strange city. In other news, we’ve launched our ambassador program. We’re looking for folks who want to bootstrap their community and there is early access to pre-mainnet tokens! We’re not interested in Hodler or token speculation meetups, so don’t bother if that’s your thing. We’re very interested in technical, design, business and creative meetups that add to the Blockchain and NEAR ecosystem. Let your freak flag fly and we’ll support you.

In engineering, we’re excited to announce a new serializer for Rust. It’s called Binary Object Representation Serializer for Hashing (BORSH). Links with explanation and details below.

Finally, keep your eyes peeled for some content that came out of Berlin! We’re not quite ready to share, but we’ll tweet about it when we are. We talked a little bit about the difference between an app chain and a dapp platform, you can see the early video below and soon we’ll post something on it on the website.

In Berlin and don’t know who to talk to? Have no fear! ‘cuz the @NEARProtocol team is.. uhh.. near! https://t.co/FXAvTa09tt

— Ken (@puntium) August 17, 2019

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
Berlin was action packed, with tons of epic talks. It feels like this year is the real year of growth for the ecosystem. Here is a retweet about Alex on the mainstage:

Challenges on sharding, one of the most interesting talks I heard so far at #web3summit by @AlexSkidanov @NEARProtocol pic.twitter.com/pxC9eJAYmt

— Mario Cao (@cao_mario) August 21, 2019

We presented at multiple events for Berlin Blockchain week from web3 summit mainstage, to panels at the legendary Soho House, to the crowded and hot co-working spaces of Kreuzberg. Thanks everyone who showed up! And an even bigger thanks to the hosts. 
Don’t forget! The IDEO hackathon is still in progress. It’s not too late to jump in, most of the work happens in the last few weeks. Don’t miss out.
We’ve kicked off the ambassador program. Set something up in your community!
We’re hiring aggressively. If you don’t see anything that fits you, email us!
Illia was on several panels and presented. (Videos below and more to come.)
Alex presented at the Web3 Summit on sharding. Should also be uploaded to the web3 summit YouTube. 
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
66 PRs across 12 repos by 19 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, and near-wallet
BORSH (Binary Object Representation Serializer for Hashing) is a new library we’ve released serializing. 
Check it out: https://nearprotocol.github.io/borsh_web/
Updated transactions model to support batched actions, e.g. create an account, deploy a code on it and make a function call in a single transaction
Nearlib now automatically unwraps RPC results
Added fees for transactions, receipts, actions to core
Removed protos for byte serialization in core
Fixed u64 parsing in assemblyscript
Major refactor of the typescript runtime in progress
Wallet
Allow scanning QR code for money transfer
Fixes to routing (now should change wallet pages without flicker)
Fixes to token amount display
WRITING AND CONTENT
We’re on the ZK podcast! We’re biased, but it’s a pretty awesome ep: https://www.zeroknowledge.fm/91
Illia gave a presentation on the difference between App Chains and Dapps: https://youtu.be/Ufe-dvqNBHE
(Low quality, but it’s the best we could do in a pinch)
Alex gave a new talk on the challenges of sharding! That should be available form the web3 youtube very soon
BONUS
there is someone masquerading as Alex Skidanov asking for Bitcoin on Telegram. It turns out that pretty much the entire team trolled them. If they ask you for BTC, make sure to tell them that you’re happy to send the funds, but you need help with your non-smart phone.

HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!
If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/


Get to Know the BOS: FastAuth for Easy, Web2 Style Onboarding and Account Recovery
UNCATEGORIZED
May 30, 2023
With the recent launch of the NEAR Blockchain Operating system (BOS) on near.org, came one of the first and most powerful features — FastAuth. 

With FastAuth, BOS users get a better than Web2-style onboarding experience, allowing them to easily create an account for any app on the BOS without a new password or the need to buy any crypto. And perhaps most powerfully for developers, FastAuth is both the easiest and fastest way to get people to try their new components and apps, yet another reason why developers will want to build on the BOS. This helps dramatically lower the threshold for adoption and opens the door to bringing billions of Web2 users into the Web3 space.

To get up to speed on FastAuth, here is a FastAuth primer with some product demo videos. 

Easy onboarding and email recovery with FastAuth
FastAuth gives users the power to quickly and easily create a single account that can be used for any website or app that integrates with the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). This feature makes FastAuth an ideal tool for developers building components on NEAR. 

With a Web2-style onboarding experience that puts the user experience front and center, users can create a free account using biometrics, phone prompts, and an email address. This means that users can quickly interact with an app but also easily re-authenticate to the app using the same or different devices. 


Since most users are accustomed to centralized authentication methods like “Sign in with Google”, Web3 account management using seed phrases and wallets have, until now, created a significant barrier to entry for many people. By combining FastAuth with decentralized email recovery, users no longer need to remember seed phrases or install third party wallet applications. Users can recover their accounts through a “Single Sign-on” (SSO) process with the email they used at registration. 

Account recovery is also decentralized and does not give custodial access to full access keys to any single custodian. It is accomplished through a process called “multi-party computation”. This finally paves a way for mass adoption with an easy, secure, and decentralized account recovery system.



With FastAuth, one of the most challenging parts in onboarding users to Web3 no longer exists. Now, users can set up a BOS account quicker than creating a Gmail, Facebook, Tiktok, or Instagram account. And developers can deliver their Web3 components, apps, and experiences more seamlessly than ever. 

No third-party applications required
FastAuth also removes the need to download any third-party applications. Everything just works seamlessly right from the browser on your desktop or mobile device.

By creating an easy, user-centric experience, FastAuth makes the open web accessible to everyone right from the get-go and opens the door to mainstream adoption. Anyone developing components on the BOS can leverage this user-friendly experience to quickly and intuitively get their apps in front of users. 

Create an account without crypto
BOS FastAuth has another great trick up its sleeve. Until now, getting started in  Web3 and interacting with apps meant acquiring crypto first. 

With FastAuth, new users can get started right away without having to buy or be gifted crypto. This is a game changer for developers, enterprises, and end-users alike. Through FastAuth’s use of NEAR’s Meta Transactions and Zero Balance Accounts, users can register an account free of charge. Developers can also use this to their advantage as Meta Transactions paired with relayers, which allow them to sponsor initial interactions for new users without needing to purchase $NEAR. 

This streamlined onboarding experience allows developers to significantly increase conversion rates for people trying their components and apps for the first time. FastAuth also expands an app and website’s audience by making it more accessible to mainstream users. 

FastAuth creates an easy way for enterprises to integrate Web3 and crypto technology into their business. With just a few lines of code, they can onboard existing users into powerful new community and commerce experiences that are accessible, highly secure , and decentralized. 

End users can also get started using Web3 apps and experiences in an easy, accessible way. Setting up a secure  fully user-owned  account now only takes seconds. 

What’s next for FastAuth 
While FastAuth is already enabling fast and simple onboarding of mainstream users as well as streamlining component-building for developers on the BOS, a number of other features and upgrades are already in the works: 

The ability to extend relayers and FastAuth to additional gateways beyond near.org
Further MPC decentralization
Multi-chain compatibility 
Two-factor authentication
Stay tuned to near.org for new FastAuth features and upgrades, as they are rolled out. 
Rapping at Stanford | NEAR Update: May 31, 2019
COMMUNITY
May 31, 2019
We kicked things off this week with an epic rap session at Stanford! Last week, we were heads down smashing bugs, crushing code and shipping features. Keep your eye on our twitter – we’re planning our next hackathon – announcement coming very soon.

In other news, we’ve shipped economics to our testnet, as well as the new wallet.

?Just for fun ?


4-Leaf Cheddar AKA Lucky Money AKA 4tunate 4tune @PotatoDepaulo dropping some wisdom ahead of tonight’s crypto collectible workshop at Stanford Blockchain Club.

Get your sweet cryptocorgis here -only at NEAR ? pic.twitter.com/zVf3KjxbMK

— NEAR Protocol (@NEARProtocol) May 31, 2019

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
If you want to see us do more in person and/or online events, just reach out on Discord: near.chat

Stanford Blockchain Club workshop
We covered how to build NFTs on our protocol. You can find the template for creating a new app here. You can find a completed version of the code and a complete version of Crypto Corgis!
Lightning talk for Decentralized Colorado
We skyped in to the Decentralized Colorado Lightning Talks night to promote our upcoming virtual dApp workshop in partnership with the Denver crypto community. If you’re in Denver, make sure you mark June 19th in your calendar.
Upcoming events

Hack.Two (TBA)
Denver DIY Crypto Collectible Web Dev Workshop
WRITING AND CONTENT
We recorded a stack of Whiteboard Series interviews with teams that had flown into New York for Consensus. More videos will be released next week so keep an eye on our YouTube.
Whiteboard with Fluence
Whiteboard with Spacemesh
We’ve released a new post on Developer Experience in Blockchain.
Max published Exploring Liveness of Avalanche
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
There were 32 PRs in our multiple repos from 5 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

We’ve been making steady progress on economics and our new model of sharding.

Application/Development Layer

Wallet
Initial support for app-specific keys
Send money to another account
Cleaned up UI to prepare for release
Display token amounts in dashboard and profile pages
Account recovery working cross-browser
Nearlib
Minor error message improvements
Support for viewing authorized apps from wallet and revoking access keys.
Send tokens
Near CLI
Make method calls from command line
Support setting networkId
Configure separate network IDs for starter project config environments
NEARStudio
Improve templates compatibility with CLI tools
Blockchain Layer

Stabilizing current nearcore (released and running)
Implementation of economics: charging storage rent and transaction fees.
Continuing Nightshade development: integration tests, chunk production and network.
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends ?

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Highlights from NEAR at Davos: Crypto Goes Mainstream
COMMUNITY
June 2, 2022
Hello, NEAR world. From May 22-26th, the global Web3 community assembled at Davos, Switzerland for the World Economic Forum. Each year, policymakers and industry leaders descend on Davos to discuss the most important issues facing the world.  

While Web3 wasn’t officially on the WEF agenda, its presence loomed large. This year’s WEF featured insights from the Web3 world on blockchain, crypto, and the Open Web. 

Several NEAR community members and partners attended WEF to help educate and network with global leaders on Web3 innovation. Here are the highlights from NEAR at Davos. 

Crypto Main Street
WEF effectively split the town of Davos in two. At the invite-only Congress, only the people with the right badges could attend the official forum. On the other, The Promenade”, events were free and open, with a noticeable “come as you are” vibe. 

While many representatives from governments, big tech firms, and large enterprises appeared at The Promenade,  major crypto and Web3 players dominated the space.  Along Crypto Main Street, crypto firms spent billions renting out shop fronts for visibility. Players occupying The Promenade included platforms like Polkadot, CasperLabs, Circle, Ripple, and others. 

Amidst soaring inflation, higher interest rates, and Terra/Luna’s collapse, Web3’s show of long-term commitment was a must. At Davos, questions arose over the sustainability of cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and decentralized apps, and the community was there to answer them. 

Crypto Main Street’s biggest draw was “The Sanctuary”—a church space sponsored by Filecoin Foundation. Located just off The Promenade, the venue was a place for all to chill with free Bitcoin pizza slices and local beer, as well as learn from a strategic CNBC venue hosting crypto-related talks.

Web3’s appearance at Davos also reaffirmed the obvious: blockchain and digital assets, as well as growing mainstream interest in crypto are shaping the new financial landscape. 

NEAR talks at The Sanctuary
NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament took the stage for the panel titled “Crypto, Quantum and AI: Perspectives on Emerging Tech and Sustainability”. The panel also featured Coinbase founder Michael Casey and Jack Hidary, CEO of Sandbox AI. Flament and the other panel members explored sustainability issues facing powerful blockchain technologies. 

Flament and the panelists agreed that blockchain sustainability is not just about the environmental impact. Other sustainability concerns include long term usability and relevance in a future defined by quantum computing and artificial intelligence. 

The panel also talked about the role technologists can play in educating the world about the possibility of blockchain. Attracting more talent to the sector was also a big topic of conversation on the panel.

NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin also took The Sanctuary stage for a fireside chat on blockchain as a force for good. In conversation with Gillian Tett, Editor at Large for the Financial Times, Pololukhin spoke about using cryptocurrencies for humanitarian aid. 

Polouskhin, who is Ukrainian, spoke about how effectively money had been sent via crypto to his home country during the war. A co-founder of Unchain Fund, he explained how the blockchain-based initiative raised millions in crypto to support Ukraine with humanitarian assistance, and how the model can be applied to other charitable causes.  

Gillian, who is passionate about ESG, sustainability, and “moral money”, seemed genuinely moved by the discussion. After their fireside chat, she stayed on the stage to speak with Polosukhin. 

There were several other big Web3 stories at Davos. Microsoft and Accentrue announced the Global Collaboration Village, which aims to improve metaverse functionality and engagement. Filecoin Foundation also announced plans to host blockchain nodes in space with defense contractor Lockheed Martin. 

NEAR in the news from Davos
NEAR figures appeared in a variety of Davos press coverage, including interviews with Coindesk, Forkast News, Bloomberg TV, and Reuters. No small task, since many of the journalists at Davos were restricted to official Congress events. 

Forkast News, a Hong Kong-based crypto news media platform, sat down with Marieke Flament to discuss her takeaways from Davos, as well as her thoughts on the future of blockchain. In a pre-recorded broadcast, she said that crypto is not something that can be ignored. 

“It’s part of the conversation,” Flament remarked. “It’s open, it’s actually inclusive, and it wants collaboration, and it can help solve some of our biggest challenges.” 

This interview also aired on Coindesk’s channel, which hosts the Daily Forkast show.  (Flament’s segment kicks in at the 4:47 mark.)  

Flament and Polosukhin also sat down with Reuters to talk Web3 talent and the need for global regulatory action. Their thoughts also appeared in Reuters’ Davos-related article “Get Your Crypto House in Order”. Flament’s views on India’s talent pool were clear: “When you map out where the next generations of developers are and where is the talent and where actually should we go, India pops up very, very high on the map.” 

Live from Zug, Switzerland on WEF’s final day, Flament made a guest appearance on Bloomberg Surveillance: Early Edition TV Show. (Her spot kicks in at the 1 hour 15-minute mark). Flament spoke on stablecoins, the Terra crisis, and how to tackle similar cases of isolated volatility. 

Although there were some rumors of weariness among regulators and policymakers at Davos, and skepticism from traditional banks, crypto remained front and center in the minds of Davos delegates. They understood that Web3 is undergoing rapid innovation, and its influence will only continue to grow in the coming years.

Sweatcoin’s ‘Walk for Ukraine’ challenge
Sweatcoin, the app that allows users to earn by moving, was also at Davos. Featured in the official WEF Davos app, the pioneers in the “movement economy” hosted “The Davos Challenge: Walk for Ukraine”. Sweatcoin encouraged Davos delegates and millions of other app users to track their steps and donate the sweatcoins generated to the Free Ukraine Foundation. 

The Davos challenge was part of the “Sweatcoin for Good” initiative. In this larger campaign, Sweatcoin invited users, in-app, to donate the sweatcoins they earn with their steps to a variety of charities.  

To participate in the challenge, users downloaded the free Sweatcoin app (iOs and Android) and started walking. With the foot traffic at Davos, the walking challenge was a great way to put newly minted sweatcoins to good use.

Over the course of 7 days, Davos delegates and other Sweatcoin users donated 2,753,102 $SWC to the Free Ukraine Foundation. There were over 60K unique givers and nearly 900K unique visits to the Sweatcoin app during the campaign. 


Community Update: ZEST & Flux on MainNet, Hack the Rainbow, EDU@NEAR
COMMUNITY
September 1, 2020
Hello citizens of NEARverse! This is NiMA coming to you from a NEARby planet in the Milky Chain …

(you can listen to an audio version of this update below, featuring Peter, head of devX at NEAR)

Audio Player

00:00
00:00

Use Up/Down Arrow keys to increase or decrease volume.
NEAR collective is hard at work to deliver the next phase of our roadmap which will also allow us to onboard thousands of new community members and token holders to the NEAR network. In parallel, our middleware team is working towards bridging NEAR to Ethereum with the Rainbow Bridge 🌈

If you’re curious about the bridge and want to start BUIDLing on top of NEAR we invite you to join Hack the Rainbow 🌈hackathon. Hack the Rainbow is going to be hosted on Gitcoin from Sep 15-30th and will come with a primary prize pool of $50,000 in $NEAR tokens and $DAI. More bounties and incentives will be announced in the coming weeks in collaboration with our community and ecosystem partners! 

Rainbow Bridge 🌈 101 

The Open Web could not be truly open without building bridges and breaking silos. This is why we are launching the Rainbow Bridge which will connect the Ethereum and NEAR blockchains while maintaining the trustless and permissionless nature of both blockchains. 

In practice this means users and developers of the bridge will only have to make the same security and trust assumptions as they would if their contracts were running on either side of the bridge. They only need to trust the blockchains themselves. 

Furthermore, the bridge is designed and built to be both rapid and generic. Interactions across the bridge could happen within minutes and seconds in contrast to days or weeks that are commonplace with existing solutions. 

“Rainbow Bridge is also generic. Any information that is cryptographically provable on NEAR is usable in Ethereum contracts and the other way around.” To dive deeper into the technical architecture of the bridge read this in-depth blog post from Max, Middleware engineering lead at NEAR. The Block also covered the rainbow bridge here. (paywall) 

NEAR Ecosystem Updates
We are excited to welcome more projects launching on NEAR MainNet. Flux, an open scalable platform for prediction markets, is the first protocol to launch on NEAR’s mainnet. The team from VHS have launched their ZEST Play Platform and digital horse racing game ZedRun, the first gaming DApp to launch on NEAR’s mainnet.

Scaling Mintbase with NEAR 

Nate (founder/dev of Mintbase) published a very candid blog post about their journey and thought process around scaling Mintbase and how they landed on NEAR as the best solution!

You can read the whole story on Medium, but I wanted to share this paragraph with you about Nate’s love-hate relationship with Solidity & EVM 👀 : 

“I’m tired of solidity, rust has been a pretty refreshing transition and is insanely good about memory and types ❤️, potentially the EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) might not be as attractive to new developers in the future. Sometimes it’s easiest to just start over fresh rather than duck taping solutions.” 

Engineering Updates:
We are implementing implicit account creation to match Ethereum DevX/UX
create-near-app v1.2.0 published! This update comes with lots of improvements from one of our active contributors Lucio M. Tato aka LMT 🙏🚀!  You can now initialize new NEAR projects using Vue. Head over to the full Guide https://github.com/near/create-near-app
near-sdk-rs near-sdk v2.0.0 published — there are several changes to LookupMap, TreeMap and collections; read the whole update https://discordapp.com/channels/490367152054992913/708307442491981849/747871093481537546
near-indexer framework is maturing while near-indexer-for-wallet and near-indexer-for-explorer are evolving
Bridge has all major audit findings addressed, only minor findings remain!
We launched 6 AssemblyScript bounties 🎉 https://github.com/near/core-contracts-as/projects/1
Rosetta Data API is implemented and Construction API is under design review
Edu updates
NEAR 101, “NEAR for Web Developers”, recorded 3 times with some changes and improvements along the way.
crowdcast.io/e/near-101—v0-1
crowdcast.io/e/near-101—v0-2
crowdcast.io/e/near-101—v0-3
NEAR 102, “NEAR for Ethereum Developers”, in progress with help from community members
Educational bounties program designed with 2 sample bounties writtenhere andhere. More to come … 
Workshop for facilitators invitation shared with community — we are inviting capable community members to deliver existing NEAR 101 content based on studying the recordings (and with our support, mentorship and guidance of course)
Looking for YOUR input to our educational priorities. If you have any suggestions, ideas or preferences and would like them to be heard, email Sherif directly at[email protected] or find him on Telegram (amgando) or Discord (Sherif#5201) 
Our friends from Blockchain at Berkeley did a NEAR white paper deep dive, check out their presentation here:  https://youtu.be/9Hdt3JcV5EM 

Aaron, Vitalpoint AI Guild lead and NEAR community hero, published an in-depth course on his Guild website.  The course covers building and issuance of Fungible Tokens on NEAR and shows learners how to add a few additional features on top of the standard implementation.

CTA: register for Hack the Rainbow on Gitcoin
Here’s a quick break down of prizes:

Prizes are 80% $NEAR tokens and 20% DAI (here expressed in $ equivalent)

– 20x 500$ for projects using ETH<>NEAR Rainbow Bridge
– 1x 5K overall winner
– 5x 3K runner ups
– 20x 1k top 20 submissions

There will be additional bounties and boosted ideas from other hackathon partners. All submissions qualify for the main NEAR prize pool and additionally partner bounties if they qualify.

 

This week we are watching, reading, and listening to … 

Open Web Collective released several amazing episodes of their podcast. The latest episode is with Sergey Nazarov who is telling us the story behind Chainlink. Truly fascinating OG blockchain journey from circa 2012 to 2020! You can subscribe to the podcast on Spotify or Apple Podcasts .

The Open Web Collective invites you to their demo day on Crowdcast! Sign up and join us to see what the projects have been cooking up in the latest cohort! 

That’s it for this update. See you in the next one! 
NEAR Funding Updates: Funding Beyond Grants
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 6, 2022
Welcome to the Funding Team Series that highlights important updates about NEAR Foundation’s Grants program, ecosystem and funding strategy. 

Part 1 will cover funding beyond Grants, Part 2 will reintroduce NEAR Foundation’s Grant Program, and Part 3 will introduce the Grant Team Handbook, to be published in the coming weeks. 

The NEAR Funding team is composed of two sub-teams: the Grants team that manages the Grants program and the Strategic Funding team which focuses on equity investments and the external VC network.

Part 1 / Funding Beyond Grants

1.  NEAR ecosystem funding programs

2. Success stories in the NEAR ecosystem

3. Projects that have raised capital

NEAR Foundation has been deeply focused on developing other funding programs within the ecosystem since the start of 2022.  Since the creation of Proximity Labs and Aurora and the launch of their own grants program, NEAR Foundation has been redirecting DeFi projects to Proximity and EVM based projects to Aurora. 

Please note that Proximity’s, Aurora’s, and all other separate grant programs’ decisions are made independent of NEAR Foundation. 

1.  Ecosystem funding programs 
A number of grant programs have launched and are ongoing  in the NEAR ecosystem including: Human Guild for Gaming projects, CypherPunk Guild for privacy projects, and Mintbase for NFT projects. These grant channels are to be used to expand and decentralize our ecosystem in a more efficient manner.  

Additionally, to amplify NEAR’s growth, the NEAR Funding team is working with launchpads, accelerators, ecosystem funds, and a VC Network that are all deeply rooted in the NEAR ecosystem.

Launchpads are blockchain-based platforms that help startups and crypto-related projects launch on-chain.

NEAR Native: 
GoNear
Skyward Finance
BocaChica
Aurora: 
NearPad
NFTs:
AstroGen
Utopia
Enleap
NEAR & Aurora: 
SmartPad
For further information about launchpads on NEAR, please visit this guide. 
Accelerators help founders validate, build, and de-risk by defining and growing KPIs, developing product-market fit, and fundraising.

OWC
Octopus Network
NearStarter
Encode
SWG
Wharton Cypher Accelerator 
Ecosystem Funds are deeply rooted in the NEAR Ecosystem with global or vertical focuses, primarily investing and deploying capital to projects in the NEAR ecosystem.

MetaWeb
Stealth Capital
Lyrik Ventures 
Caerus Ventures
Regional Hubs, as part of our path toward decentralization, the NEAR Foundation will be redirecting projects related to specific regions. The  NEAR Foundation is currently supporting 6 regional hubs in strategic locations (Ukraine, Kenya, Balkans, Vietnam, India and Korea) with others to come. Local experts are able to tailor NEAR initiatives to support local communities and regional ecosystem building. 

A summary of different funding programs can be found here.

VC Network 

NEAR Foundation’s VC Network includes 300+ VCs  representing 30Bn+ in capital that are actively engaged and supporting the growth of projects within NEAR. They have already deployed $300 million to 60 projects thus far.

2. Success stories in the NEAR ecosystem
NearNauts – NFT
The NearNauts team came to NEAR with a vision, received funding from the NEAR Foundation Grants team, and have since launched what is now the top NFT project on NEAR. They started off as a PFP NFT project, utilizing grant funds to develop their website, smart contract, and marketing. Then, they expanded to build out a no-code NFT launchpad and a KYC platform. Their marketplace is on the way featuring a revenue sharing model for holders.

Apollo42 – NFT 
The Apollo42 team is a great example of a NEAR Foundation grant recipient that came to NEAR with a vision, and by receiving funding from NF was able to realize that vision. Apollo 42 is an ecosystem of NFT services that started out by building and integrating NFT ranking tools. From there, they went on to develop their own NFT Marketplace with elements of AR built into it. Apollo42 has made some amazing developments along the way, and continues to build out and update their platform.

Blogchain – Social Impact
Capsule Social is another great example of a team that received funding from the NEAR Foundation Grants team and went on to build an amazing platform. With the funding received from NF, the Capsule Social team developed Blogchain, a creative writing platform that empowers writers to publish content and get paid on Web3.

NearBlocks – Tools/Infrastructure
The team behind NearBlocks initially came into the NEAR ecosystem curious about the blockchain and underlying tech. They received a grant from NF and built NearBlocks, a blockchain explorer, search, API and analytics platform with the goal of providing equitable access to blockchain data. Once they launched NearBlocks and saw how successful it was, they went on to build and launch https://nearsend.io/, a tool for bulk transacting. The team also has another exciting project in the works. Located in Indonesia, the team has gone from 3 to 11 full time Rust developers, with the goal of increasing to 50 in the next year.

Sender – Wallet
Sender Wallet is a great case study of a project that came into the NEAR ecosystem with a plan. The team received funding from the NEAR Foundation Grants team to build out and launch a non-custodial browser extension wallet for NEAR users. Sender Wallet has gone on to be one of the most popular wallets in the ecosystem.

3. Projects that have raised capital  
Niche – Social Networking app on NEAR – Twitter
Niche is a decentralized social networking app, built to help people discover and grow communities. The mission of Niche is to return agency to individuals and enable them to benefit from their content, not big corporations. 

External Raised capital:  $1.8M –  Announcement
Latest update:  Launched beta in August, read about their NEAR launch here.
Tonic – Orderbook DEX on NEAR  – Twitter
Tonic is a high-performance trading platform that brings the speed and convenience of centralized exchanges to NEAR while being fully decentralized.

External Raised capital: $5M – Announcement
Latest update:  Launched mainnet in May 2022, launched Tonic Swap in July
Capsule Social – Decentralized social discourse on NEAR – Twitter
Capsule Social launched Blogchain, a Web3 publishing platform with unrivaled protections for free speech, where content is protected by a censorship-resistant architecture. 

External Capital Raised: $2.5M –  Announcement
Latest update:  Launched Blogchain, a decentralized Substack competitor in June.  You can check out the content on Blogchain or participate in writing here.
Sender Wallet – Browser extension wallet built on NEAR – Twitter
Sender is a browser extension wallet built on NEAR. Its goal is to build a secure and smooth wallet for decentralized digital assets like crypto and NFTs.

External Capital Raised: $4.5M – Announcement 
Interested in getting funded?
If you are interested in funding for your project, check out the following resources: 

Explore NEAR Funding Programs: linktree
Visit the NEAR website : https://pages.near.org/
Contact the NEAR Grants team at [email protected] 
⌛️ In the next blog post, the NEAR Funding team will reintroduce the NEAR Foundation’s Grant Program, providing grant data and including key updates. 
Mooniswap brings its next-generation AMM protocol by 1inch to NEAR
COMMUNITY
November 24, 2020
In the month since the unrestricted Mainnet went live, the NEAR community is hard at work to bring best-in-class applications to the platform. Mooniswap by 1inch.exchange is the latest addition to a vibrant ecosystem of protocols building on NEAR.

NEAR’s focus on both usability and performance is opening up new opportunities for DeFi by supporting at-scale real world applications with lower gas fees, low latency, and a flexible account model. 1inch’s decentralized exchange (DEX) aggregator is designed to roll liquidity and pricing from all major DEXes into one platform, making it easy to get the best price for the desired trade. Mooniswap building on NEAR will bring next-generation Automated Market Making possibilities to the OpenWeb.

Sergej Kunz, CEO and co-founder of 1inch, spoke about the growth of their platform and why Mooniswap is excited to be building on NEAR.

“We see substantial potential in NEAR as it is already offering what Ethereum just promises to offer. By building on NEAR, we’ll be able to experiment with sharding and be prepared for the arrival of Ethereum 2.0.”

NEAR delivering on the promise of sharding ahead of Ethereum 2.0 has caught the attention of decentralized applications that need scale now in order to grow. Mooniswap is just the first of many applications building on NEAR that will leverage the performance, cost efficiency, and portability of the NEAR<>ETH Rainbow Bridge.

Front Running Exploitation in Decentralized Exchanges
Blockchain applications have long sought to solve the issues of fairness and transparency in financial trading ecosystems. However, due to the public nature of blockchains, one can easily identify the widespread use of nefarious tactics like arbitrage bots which exploit inefficiencies in decentralized exchanges. Similar to high-frequency traders on Wall Street, arbitrage bots are able to anticipate ordinary users’ trades and optimize for network latency in order to maximize profit at the expense of ordinary users. Commonly called “Front Running,” this is the primary problem that inspired the 1inch team to launch Mooniswap. 

Because transactions and gas fees are publicly visible before a block is mined, arbitrage bots are able to predict the direction in which a market is headed and submit a transaction with a higher gas price, forcing their transaction to be mined first. By trading on price swings, arbitrage traders use Front Running essentially to steal from liquidity providers.

The Mooniswap Solution
Mooniswap sought to solve this problem by simply using time to combat arbitrage bots. Virtual balances normalize pricing over a short five-minute period, keeping slippage revenue in a pool to be distributed more equitably. 

When a swap occurs, the Mooniswap AMM does not immediately improve price in the opposite direction, but gradually opens it over time. These high-slippage trades are the opportunity arbitrageurs seek to profit on, but in the fairer, more transparent ecosystem on Mooniswap, the actual balance of the exchange does not immediately reflect changes from slippage. Any new trades are still executed at the old price.

Over a five-minute period, the price gradually updates to its true value based on the pool balances. This leaves only small windows of arbitrage opportunities, limiting exposure to average users in a fairer ecosystem.

Additionally, during that short window, the exchange takes a much higher percentage of the trader’s profit, forcing arbitrageurs to return a higher proportion of the price slippage to the pool.

On Mooniswap, arbitrageurs can only collect a portion of the slippage, while the rest remains in the pool and is shared among liquidity providers. Since prices are not updated immediately, no profit can be obtained by simply being faster than someone else.

Mooniswap’s Preparation for Sharding
NEAR’s launch introduced a scalable model for sharding to the blockchain industry: a first among leading protocols promising to deliver a real-world usable blockchain. This architecture presents a unique opportunity for existing dapps to start building and testing their infrastructure on a sharded network now to experience the benefits of scale that other blockchains promise to deliver in future versions.

“As a previous bridge developer of NEAR, I’m quite excited to see the game-changing Mooniswap innovation build on the game-changing innovation that is NEAR Protocol,” says Anton Bukov, 1inch co-founder and CTO. “Mooniswap’s move to NEAR highlights the community synergy and virtuous circle that make up the overall blockchain and DeFi space. Moreover, this synergy underscores 1inch’s ultimate mission: to improve DeFi technology as much as possible for as many users as possible.”

To start, Mooniswap will migrate their protocol to NEAR’s virtual machine along with establishing a native liquidity protocol on NEAR. The NEAR Rainbow Bridge and EVM integration create a seamless path to market on NEAR in the short term while they architect long term solutions for even more scalability. Eventually, the team will rebuild their core protocol native to NEAR, based on a sharded architecture, and become the first sharded decentralized exchange. 

Key Milestones for Mooniswap
The team has recently launched 1inch version 2. Its major highlights are Pathfinder, an API that contains a new discovery and routing algorithm, and an intuitive, user-friendly UI. Thanks to the improvements, users will get even better rates on swaps, while response time will be cut even further. Many more products and features are in the works to power a more fair and transparent future for scalable decentralized exchanges.

Welcome to the Community
Please join us in welcoming the 1inch team to the NEAR community. We look forward to supporting their goal of creating more fair and transparent scalable decentralized exchanges. Stay tuned for news about more great partners joining NEAR with applications across the ecosystem.

If you’re just learning about NEAR for the first time, we invite you to join us on the journey to make blockchain accessible to everyday people with NEAR. If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for our developer program and join the conversation in our Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to our newsletter for the latest news on NEAR.


NEAR Launches Sustainable Learn and Earn Program with Coinbase
COMMUNITY
September 1, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new campaign with Coinbase designed to educate people on the utility of the NEAR token. A secure platform for buying, selling, transferring, and storing digital currency, Coinbase is one of the world’s largest digital currency exchanges, fully registered and operating in over 100 countries. 

This educational series will utilize the Coinbase Earn program to educate users about NEAR through video tutorials and interactive quizzes produced by Coinbase. Learn about running smart contracts in Javascript and Rust, joining or creating a DAO with a NEAR wallet, how Nightshade sharding is powering NEAR’s incredible scalability, and more. 

Funding Learn and Earn with Staking Rewards 
What makes this campaign unique is that it will be the first of its kind to use staking rewards to fund the initiative. Coinbase will manage NEAR tokens over a period of three years, collecting staking rewards and using those rewards to sustainably help users to learn about the utility of the NEAR token and what makes NEAR the world’s leading blockchain for developers, with its low fees, high speeds, and infinite scalability.

“In an era when many crypto companies have relied on unsustainable business models to grow and scale, it was important we found a way of helping educate people about the unique features of NEAR in a sustainable way,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. 

Certified climate neutral by SouthPole, the leading company for voluntary carbon offsetting, sustainability is at the core of NEAR’s mission of providing a platform that is low-cost, high speed, secure, and easy to use for developers and lay users alike. 

To participate in the Earn campaign, open the Coinbase app and navigate to the “Learning Rewards” tab on the left hand menu. Once there, those logged in and eligible to earn will see the NEAR campaign. 

Integrating NEAR with Coinbase Custody
In addition to the Coinbase Earn program, the partnership will also integrate NEAR with Coinbase Custody—an independent entity offering clients access to secure institutional grade offline custody—and Coinbase Prime, an integrated solution that provides secure custody, an advanced trading platform, and additional prime services. 

“We are committed to democratizing access to the world of Web3 and giving more people the opportunity to help shape its future,” Flament says. “We are making it easier than ever for anyone to learn about the utility of the NEAR token and its ability to create a more accessible and sustainable Web3. We believe that through education, we take another step towards mass adoption.”

This partnership will allow NEAR Foundation to expand its ecosystem by tapping into the huge number of users who put their trust in Coinbase and showing them just how easy NEAR is to use and understand. 


The NEAR Blockchain is Climate Neutral
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 10, 2021
 – Guest Post by Yessin Schiegg
The NEAR Blockchain is Climate Neutral. If you are concerned about climate change and the effect that blockchain is having on the earth, this text should open your eyes that the NEAR Protocol is the right choice to save the climate!
The Dilemma
Climate change is arguably the most critical global crisis facing humans today. From carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions warming the atmosphere, to rising sea levels and changing weather patterns, it is clear that human industries’ impact on earth is accelerating. While the technology sector is not generally cited as one of the top contributors to climate change, the increasingly widespread manufacturing of devices and related energy consumption has a major impact.
In the blockchain space, energy consumption has become a point of focus for believers and skeptics alike, particularly as popularity and awareness have increased in the past six months. These debates generally begin with Bitcoin, the first blockchain with the highest market cap and greatest global awareness today.

Bitcoin and PoW (Proof of work)
Bitcoin is a proof-of-work (PoW) blockchain protocol in which miners prove that they extended a certain amount of computational effort before receiving the reward for a validated block. The PoW consensus mechanism is the heart of the blockchain energy debate.

The computational effort of producing blocks is made by putting thousands of tons of mining gear at work. This equipment consumes high amounts of electricity during production, installation, and operation. The miners compete against each other for block rewards and tend to gear up as long the block reward is higher than their spending on gear and electricity; much of this computation energy is wasted in the race to earn the reward. The block reward is currently 6.25 BTC created by inflation and paid out approximately every 10 minutes.

Energy consumed via PoW
Depending on the electricity source, the PoW mining activity comes with a high carbon footprint, both because it is inefficient and because the global scale of Bitcoin mining now rivals the energy consumption of some nations. Some miners claim to operate climate neutral by employing hydro or nuclear power in running their mining rigs. However, due to the vast extent of electricity consumption, these energy sources take a considerable toll on the environment and come with long-term disposal issues (as do many other forms of computer hardware) too.

Based on Digiconomist’s Energy Consumption Index, Bitcoin generates a whopping 37 million tons of CO2 emissions annually. Breaking this down to the 365 days per year and the approximately 330,000 transactions per day on the Bitcoin blockchain, a Bitcoin transaction generates about 0.3 tons of CO2 exhaust. That is the equivalent of the carbon footprint of a 1,600 km (or 1,000 mile) car ride on a car that consumes 8 liters of gas per 100km. You can also think about it as burning 130 liters of gasoline for just one Bitcoin transaction.

If you transfer Bitcoin to an exchange, the exchange typically transfers your Bitcoin to a pool with another transaction on the blockchain. By that measure, there goes another 1,600km equivalent of CO2 exhaust. Now add a test transaction too, and in aggregate you caused the carbon footprint of a car ride from San Francisco to New York by pushing a few buttons.

Ethereum and PoW (Proof of work)
Ethereum, the second biggest blockchain by market cap, also runs on PoW consensus but has a considerably lower carbon footprint than Bitcoin. According to the Digiconomist’s Energy Consumption Index, Ethereum generates approximately 12 million tons of CO2 emissions annually, which is about a third of Bitcoin’s. Ethereum allows for about four times as many transactions per second vs. Bitcoin. Therefore, Ethereum transactions result in approximately 12 times lower carbon footprint than Bitcoin transactions. Unfortunately, that is still like burning 12 liters of gasoline per transaction or a carbon footprint of 27 kilograms of CO2 per transaction.

Ethereum 2.0 and PoS (Proof of Stake)
Ethereum is working on a network architecture upgrade to Ethereum 2.0 that will roll out over the next several years. By the time the final stage of the upgrade is complete, proof-of-stake (PoS) consensus will replace PoW to maintain the network. In PoS, there are no miners that prove a computational effort. Instead, validators put up a certain token amount as a stake to prove that they have skin in the game before they get to validate blocks and collect a block reward.

The energy efficiency of PoS is orders of magnitude better than PoW and, unlike PoW, it doesn’t suffer from economies of scale, so validators are not incentivized to maximize their hardware footprint in the same way. While the Beacon chain, the so-called “heartbeat” chain at the core of Ethereum’s new architecture, has already launched, it will take at least a couple of years before users can build and transact on ETH 2.0.

Ethereum 2.0 will not be the first PoS blockchain to go live. Several, including NEAR Protocol, are already running today.

NEAR Protocol and PoS – the Greener Alternative
The NEAR Protocol, launched in 2020, is a third-generation blockchain based on PoS, processes 1,000 transactions per second while running much more efficiently than PoW chains. This throughput will increase further with sharding, a blockchain scaling technology that divides computation across parallel “shards.” Developers find it easy to build on NEAR, and the toolset of the blockchain is growing very fast.

Beyond just energy efficiency with PoS consensus, the NEAR Foundation has committed to making NEAR Protocol climate neutral this year. In February 2021, NEAR Protocol engaged South Pole, a leading project developer and global climate solutions provider headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, to assess NEAR’s carbon footprint, reduce it where possible, and fully compensate the remaining exhaust with CO2 offsetting projects going forward. South pole considered the NEAR Foundation’s carbon footprint, the Core Collective (all employees and contractors working on the NEAR Protocol), and all validators in the assessment.

The results show that the NEAR Protocol currently generates a carbon footprint of 174 tons of CO2 per year. Therefore, NEAR Protocol is more than 200,000 times more carbon efficient than Bitcoin, mainly by applying PoS instead of PoW.

Another advantage of PoS is that the carbon footprint of NEAR will only marginally grow by the increasing transaction throughput. Compensating that footprint with reforestation projects makes the NEAR Blockchain carbon neutral. Doing transactions on NEAR plants trees in Colombia, Zimbabwe, and the United States via these carbon offsetting projects.

Follow all the news on NEAR via our Twitter, or join our community via our Discord server.


Why Web3 is Needed More than Ever
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 28, 2022
The world is literally on fire. Europe, Asia and parts of America have all experienced record temperatures this summer, causing wildfires and devastation. 

The world economy too, is running hotter than anytime in living memory. War wages in Europe, inflation continues to climb, energy supplies are dwindling, and food shortages are becoming the norm. 

Last, but certainly not least, civil rights are in retreat. Women’s autonomy is under threat–half the world’s female population lack the ability to make choices about their own bodies–and democracy has been in decline in every continent for over a decade. The outlook for humanity is grim. 

But amidst this backdrop represents a unique opportunity. An opportunity for Web3 to step forward and help re-imagine the world as we know it. 

A broken system needs a new way of thinking 
Crypto was born out of a crisis. When the Bitcoin whitepaper was released in 2008, the world was in the midst a recession the International Monetary Fund described as the most severe economic and financial meltdown since the Great Depression.

While the world has moved on, the issues that caused the depression still remain. The financial system that underpins this world has maintained its monopoly. The world’s global elite exert more control than ever. Governments have been ‘too slow’ in tackling the existential threat posed by climate change. And marginalised communities struggle to have their voices heard at a local and global level. 

While there is no silver bullet to these issues, there are solutions, many of them being worked on in the Web3 space. But they are in their early stages, and need help. They need talent, money and voices from all walks of life to take part in shaping how this technology works. 

Web3 was designed as an antithesis to what came before. At its heart is a vision to decentralise power and control, and help level the playing field when it comes to inclusion and participation. But those ideas are fragile, and need protecting. It’s one of the reasons I joined NEAR, and why I believe this project can contribute to this change. 

One part of the puzzle  
The technology that sits beneath NEAR is revolutionary. It has managed to find a working solution to the blockchain trilemma, creating a blockchain that is secure, scalable and decentralized. It’s also sustainable, achieving climate neutral status for two years in a row. 

Built on top of that are more than 700 diverse projects from across the world. From education projects in Africa, to humanitarian aid projects in Europe and conservation projects in Latin America. 

Alongside these projects, there is critical work being carried out to reimagine and repurpose what we mean when we talk about ownership, community and incentive. 

Projects like Brave, Youminter, NEARPay and Tamago are rethinking what ownership means beyond the Web2 world of middlemen and rent seekers. 

The NEAR Hubs program is bringing empowerment and inclusion to regions historically overlooked when new technologies are in their nascent stages. 

Last, but not least, projects like Sweatcoin, and Open Forest Protocol are radically rethinking how to incentivise people to make changes in their lives for the benefit of everyone else’s. 

But NEAR is just one piece of this puzzle. We believe that in order for change to happen, we need more voices, more ideas, more radical thinking to help take on threats to our very existence. 

Now is the time to build. Now is the time for change. 

If you want to learn more about NEAR, come and see us at NEARCON, or attend one of our regional events, or join our community. 


NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for April
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 2, 2023
As April draws to a close, we wanted to share the top global headlines from the NEAR Foundation and ecosystem this month.

Let’s take a look at some of the biggest stories from NEAR in February. 

NEAR Foundation launches NEAR Horizon
The NEAR Foundation attracted over 81 pieces of global coverage this month. One of April’s top stories was the NEAR Foundation’s launch of NEAR Horizon at Consensus 2023, a revolutionary accelerator supporting founders with open-access resources and incubator programmes from partners Dragonfly, Pantera and more.

As covered by Coindesk, Horizon will enable the NEAR ecosystem to continue to build projects through the crypto winter, utilizing the dedicated marketplace to access over 15 service providers, 40 mentors and 300 backers.

Illia Polosukhin talks building in a bear market
Illia Polosukhin took to the stage at Consensus 2023, contributing to a Coindesk panel focused on BUIDLing in a bear market, stressing the crucial role of collaboration as Web3 strives to onboard Web2 users. Developers have created advanced and exciting infrastructure solutions, but now need to add a focus on delivering projects to the market, realising the potential of blockchain technology.

Consensus 2023 also hosted the full launch of the BOS (Blockchain Operating System), providing users and developers with a one-stop-shop for interacting with any blockchain. As reported by Bloomberg, the open source platform enables builders to utilise thousands of community components to expedite the blockchain development process, at no cost to the developer or end user.

NEAR Foundation announces the return of Women in Web3 Changemakers
Following a successful launch last year, the NEAR Foundation announced the return of the Women in Web3 Changemakers list. The initiative, as covered by CryptoTVPlus, champions the achievements of female leaders from across the Web3 industry and aims to inspire higher rates of diversity in a field where women are severely underrepresented. Nominations are now open – submit your female colleagues here.

Marieke Flament talks Web3 talent and leadership with BTC Echo
Marieke Flament sat down for an exclusive interview with BTC Echo, Germany’s major crypto publication to talk about talent, leadership and more . In the profile piece, she explained how ​​the NEAR Foundation is moving away from supporting the blockchain rat race and helping NEAR protocol pivot to become a blockchain operation system.

“We are at a major turning point,” she told the editor, and explained why working for NEAR Foundation is so special. “The community is inclusive. People come from all over the world. You can ask them any question and they will explain it in simple terms. It’s a safe space.”

Cosmose AI’s switch to NEAR featured in TechCrunch
Cosmose AI joined the NEAR ecosystem this month, leveraging Web3 innovations to ensure that users maintain complete control over data and privacy. Featured in TechCrunch, Cosmose AI’s recent funding round led by the NEAR Foundation will also enable the continued development of KaiChing, an in-house cryptocurrency leveraging NEAR to reduce payment processing times and significantly lower fees.

NEAR Foundation at Women in Payments Symposium in London
The Women in Payments Symposium took place in London during April, where Marieke Flament presented the closing keynote discussing the opportunity presented to Web3 by the recent banking woes in the USA and Europe. As covered by CityAM and TechFundingNews, Marieke spoke to attendees about the potential of DeFi and the need for a clear regulatory landscape, whilst highlighting the potential for partnerships between traditional finance and decentralised finance.

Google Cloud and NEAR Foundation partnership featured in Cointelegraph
Google Cloud announced a special initiative for Web3 startups, bringing blockchain-based projects into the fold and providing relevant technical tools and cloud services to series A companies. Cointelegraph covered the increased support for founders building in Web3, as Google partnered with the NEAR Foundation and other blockchains to provide scalable infrastructure to founders across the globe.

Hackernoon calls BOS the “universal remote for crypto”
Bringing April to a close, Hackernoon took a shine to NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System, comparing the BOS to a universal remote for crypto, enabling users to use the same wallet over different blockchains and decentralised applications. The Web3-focused publication is excited by the BOS’s replacement of centralised infrastructure  and groundbreaking support for forkable developer components, likening the BOS to the early days of IOS and Android.

That’s all for this month. If we missed anything out or want to share anything for next month’s roundup, get in touch!
Minting Minecraft Blueprints As NFTs
DEVELOPERS
December 9, 2021
Most of the time, when you hear people talking about non-fungible tokens (NFTs), your first thoughts may turn to media files such as images or music. But, actually, NFTs are not limited to such file types. In this article, you’ll discover how the DevRel team created non-fungible tokens based on Minecraft buildings designed inside the game.

Blockheads
Creative possibilities are endless thanks to the new developments and technologies rising in the crypto space. For example, Dorian (a member of Near Inc. DevRel team) runs a YouTube series called Blockheads, where he creates fun examples of things you can build on NEAR. He’s also fond of the world of Minecraft, especially during quarantine. 

After learning about NFTs, Dorian thought it would be fun to give Minecraft artists and builders the ability to mint their buildings and creations as NFTs and sell them on the open web. So, using the Mineflayer JavaScript library, he created a bot that could monitor the in-game chat and pull information about the game’s environment. Then, using that bot, he created blueprints that a user could then mint onto the NEAR blockchain. The following video shows the bot named Jerry in action:


Minting Minecraft with NEAR
The app grew and took shape. Finally, Ben Kurrek from Near Inc. DevRel had the great idea of using the popular World Edit mod to get the building data and store it in a .schem file. This file then gets uploaded to IPFS for storage, and the content identifier (CID) is saved to the NEAR blockchain itself. The flow is smooth, and .schem files capture the building designs more accurately than Jerry could on his own.

If you’re interested in seeing how the complete flow works in minting a Minecraft building, check out the NFTs tutorial Ben created. It’s simple, fun, and very straightforward (of course, if you have questions, you can ask us during Office Hours).

As it currently stands, getting Jerry to read .schem files has been tricky since they aren’t a conventional file type that JavaScript (Jerry’s preferred language of choice) can understand right out of the box. But progress is still being made. So if you would like to join Dorian on this endeavor to make Minecraft NFTs on NEAR, you can contact him on Discord.
Highlights from NEAR at Paris Blockchain Week Summit
COMMUNITY
April 20, 2022
Hello, NEAR world. The global Web3 community rolled into France on April 12-14 for the Paris Blockchain Week Summit. Several key NEAR figures were there to take attendees on a tour of the major happenings in NEAR’s thriving ecosystem. 

PBWS is the flagship event of Paris Blockchain Week. Over two days, more than 3,000 attendees, 70 sponsors, 250 speakers, and 100 media partners hosted sessions on Web3 innovation, governance, international regulatory cooperation, and more. 

NEAR Foundation hosted a number of talks at PBWS from ecosystem figures, as well as a meetup with partner Atka. These events showcased NEAR’s simple, secure and scalable protocol, and its vibrant ecosystem of developers building decentralized apps.

If you weren’t able to make it IRL, worry not. We’ve got highlights from NEAR at PBWS. 

April 12 — NEAR-Atka Meetup, Keynotes and ‘Building on NEAR’ Panel
Day 1 of PBWS began in the evening with the NEAR-Atka meetup at Palais Brongniart. Attendees mingled and networked over champagne and food. 

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament kicked the Keynotes event off with opening remarks and an introduction of the NEAR ecosystem. Florian Le Goff, Founder of Synaps, followed Marieke with a talk on Amina, a newly-launched decentralized identity platform, built on NEAR. NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin then updated the audience on NEAR infrastructure and what’s next, including details on protocol security and enterprise solutions. 

Following Polosukhin’s talk, Anton Vaisburd, general manager of NEAR’s Regional Hub in Ukraine took to the stage. The Ukraine Regional Hub is part of NEAR Foundation’s mission to create a network of thriving regional hubs. These NEAR hubs are places for community members to meet up, learn, and create. The Ukraine hub is a resource for efforts like Unchain Fund, a charity project that has raised nearly $10 million for humanitarian efforts in Ukraine. 

Day 1 wrapped up with the 90-minute panel “Building on NEAR”. Moderated by Atka’s William Piquard, the panel featured Didier Pironi (Ref Finance), Anton Paisov (Aurora), Jon Werthen (Founder and COO, ARterra Labs), Jasper De Gooijer (Flux Protocol), and Nadim Kobeissi (Capsule Social). “Building on NEAR” focused on developing decentralized apps on the NEAR protocol. 

Notably, Werthen shared his thoughts on esports on the blockchain. He said it’s imperative to make “Web3 [esports] applications feel like something people are already used to in Web2” apps. 

April 13 – NEAR Keynote 
On Day 2, NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament gave a keynote address on the Paris Blockchain Week Summit Discovery Stage. She talked about access, movement, and the diversity of distinct apps and economies set to emerge in the near future.

“What is NEAR? A world where people control their assets, data, and power of governance,” said Flament. “An open web world.”

Flament then highlighted NEAR’s simple, infinitely scalable (thanks to Nightshade sharding), and secure next generation platform for dapps—one that is climate neutral. 

On NEAR there is more open access—the individual is empowered while gatekeepers are eliminated. Flament pointed to YouMinter, a decentralized social media app for iOS and Android, where creators can mint and post NFTs. Think of it as an alternative to Instagram, where creators can easily sell their work, instead of handing over data to centralized platforms for free. 

Flament pointed to NEAR Foundation’s partnerships with SailGP and Orange DAO as proof that DAOs are helping to power new economies through community-based decision-making. She also shared special news from the NEAR Ecosystem. London-based tech company Sweatcoin partnered with NEAR Foundation to create a new movement economy. Sweatcoin is on a mission to inspire a healthier planet by incentivizing people to move more. The NEAR-Sweatcoin partnership brings with it SWEAT, a radical new token that is minted purely by steps. 

“One of NEAR’s core missions is to help onboard the world to Web3, collaborating with SweatCoin allows us to take a step closer to that mission.” said Flament.

Flament was joined on stage by Sweatcoin co-founder Oleg Fomenko, who shared his vision for a world where people have better control of their data, but can also be rewarded for taking steps to reduce their carbon footprint. 

April 14 – Interactive Roundtable
On the final day of Paris Blockchain Week Summit, Flament led the “Interactive Roundtable: Pioneering the Future of DAOs”. Panelists included NEAR Co-founder Polosukhin, SailGP’s Charlie Dewhurst and Paraswap’s Founder, Mounir Benchelemb. 

Polosukhin is well-known for his love of DAOs. He said that a DAO is essentially an experiment with something, often real world problems, between a community and a company. With the DAO behind Unchain Fund, of which Polosukhin is a member, that meant getting funds and resources to Ukrainians who needed it. 

“In our case, time was of the essence,” said Polosukhin. “You can start a DAO in 5 minutes whereas starting a nonprofit would be more like 5 months or even 5 years.”

“We are building NEAR to lower the barrier to entry for mainstream users,” he said. “Right now, DAOs are beyond regulation territory but we live in the physical world and understand how these new organizations will map. We need to figure out how DAOs can interact with the traditional world. Also, security and making users feel safe using this technology.”

Dewhurst’s appearance came hot on the heels of NEAR Foundation’s partnership with SailGP, which will include the sale of a new sailing team to a NEAR-based DAO. This could revolutionize team ownership but also fan access to and interaction with teams and athletes.  

“A new generation of fans recognize how much of a role they have in shaping a brand or a product,” said Dewhurst. “It’s a lot less top down. Influencers are this whole new category and they’re engaging directly. There is a lot less distance between a brand and its users or customers. That’s also central to Web3 and has been since the beginning.”

Paraswap’s Benchelemb emphasized that DAOs offer individual members a way to contribute through a crypto bank account, established processes, tooling for offline groups to increase online capabilities, and more. “[DAOs] give more people a voice without limitations like background, jurisdiction, social ties, level of access,” he said.

As Benchelemb sees it, the major challenge facing mainstream adoption is the complexity of DAO tooling for non-crypto natives. One solution he offered is simplifying onboarding.

In Amsterdam on April 21st? Visit NEAR @ DevConnect for a full day of in-depth NEAR sessions aimed at building a multi-chain, open web future. 

Register to attend NEAR @ DevConnect in-person here, or tune in via the Metaverse LiveStream. 
NEAR 2021: A Year in Review
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 28, 2021
Welcome to the NEAR Retrospective! It’s been quite a year for NEAR Foundation, Near Inc., and, of course, all the incredible projects and community members that make all of this possible. 

So we thought it was high time to look back at some of the highlights from 2021: everything from protocol upgrades, ecosystem funding, community developments, and new projects launching on NEAR mainnet. 

We’ll also be giving a sneak peek at what’s to come in 2022 in a separate post, so keep a lookout for that. 

Protocol Progress 
The sign of a healthy network is one that is constantly adding improvements and tweaks to the performance, stability, and security—and NEAR protocol had that in abundance in 2021. 

Near Inc.’s engineering team racked up 20 upgrades to the protocol. Among the highlights were protocol update 35 – implicit accounts. This allows NEAR to have Ethereum style accounts that are public keys. They are created on-chain when someone transfers a nonzero amount of tokens to this account.


Another stand-out upgrade was protocol update 42. Here engineers lowered storage staking cost from 1N per 10kb to 1N per 100kb. This dramatically reduced the barrier of entry for contract developers. Before this change, when a developer deployed a 300kb contract, they needed to have at least 30 $NEAR on the account. After the change, they only need 3 $NEAR.

Lastly, not leastly, protocol upgrade 48 brought our WebAssembly runtime from wasmer0 to wasmer2. This shift helped half the cost of wasm operations, helping unlock many applications building on Aurora that were previously blocked because their transactions could not fit in NEAR’s gas limit.

This trend continued throughout the year, culminating in our biggest protocol announcement this year, Sharding. 

Sharding Takes Shape 
When NEAR released its design for the protocol back in 2019, we initially envisioned a completely sharded blockchain. We quickly realized that this brand new network didn’t have an immediate demand for processing hundreds of millions of transactions. Besides, a fully sharded blockchain is a complex endeavor, and we’d need a little time to do it right. 

However, the average number of daily transactions has now surpassed 300K. As more and more projects are building on NEAR, the volume of transactions is only going to increase dramatically in 2022. While the NEAR network is still only using a fraction of its total capacity, we wanted to start the transition to sharding now to avoid any unpleasant surprises, as well as ensure we can support all applications on NEAR. 

November 15th marked the beginning of this transition, as we unveiled Simple Nightshade, the first step (Phase 0) in our fully-sharded and secure blockchain. We dropped Simple Nightshade now so that we could preempt any unpleasant surprises with transaction speeds later. In Phase 0 of Nightshade, NEAR’s sharding is split across many nodes, making it super fast and ready for the onboarding of leagues of new developers and blockchain users. 

In early 2022, NEAR will move into Nightshade Phase 1, in which we will introduce the new role of chunk-only producers—those who only validate one shard. They produce chunks (shard blocks) for a specific shard and don’t need expensive hardware to do so—all without sacrificing network security. In Phase 2, currently scheduled for Q3 of 2022, both state and processing will be fully sharded, and validators won’t need to track all shards. And in Q4 of 2022, we will enter Phase 3 (Dynamic Sharding), in which we will enable the network to dynamically split and merge shards based on resource utilization. This will make NEAR almost infinitely scalable and able to handle any short-term spikes in usage. 

For more details on sharding, head over to the NEAR Medium page, where we’re publishing a series of features on how Nightshade is impacting the platform. Beyond a simple primer on how sharding works, we’re also exploring how Simple Nightshade is now powering the DeFi space and helping make NEAR carbon-neutral, amongst other things.   

Funding finds its feet
An ecosystem needs support, especially in its early days when projects are just finding their feet. In 2021, NEAR Foundation went above and beyond to foster growth and innovation. 

First up, there was the news that the NEAR ecosystem announced a monumental $800 million in funding initiatives targeted at accelerating growth. While NEAR is giving all communities access to this record amount of funding, there will be a special focus on Decentralized Finance (DeFi) teams who are actively revolutionizing and reimagining the way we interact with money. 

DeFi projects on NEAR have already been thriving this year, with $200 million total value locked across projects like Ref Finance, Skyward, and Octopus. In addition to ecosystem fund news, Proximity Labs, a research and development firm targeting the NEAR ecosystem, announced its own $350 million grants DAO to build on the momentum.

In the ecosystem, key projects like Aurora raised $12 million in its first funding round. The Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) for scaling decentralized applications on NEAR, received funding from the likes of Pantera Capital, Electric Capital, Dragonfly Capital and other funds.  

Flux Protocol, meanwhile, the decentralized oracle provider building on NEAR, raised $10.3 million to build the future of open finance earlier in the year. The project’s round was led by Distributed Global, with participation from Coinbase Ventures, CoinFund, Uncorrelated, Figment Capital, Maven 11, Reciprocal Ventures, Jabre Capital, Greenfield One, IOSG, and Flow Ventures.

With funding in place, it was only a matter of time before the ecosystem took off. 

Explosive Ecosystem Growth 
NEAR’s 2021 was marked by massive growth. Fueled by Rainbow Bridge, which connects NEAR with Ethereum, as well as Simple Nightshade sharding, the NEAR ecosystem saw an exciting proliferation of gaming, Metaverse, NFT, and DeFi projects. 

Gaming
Gaming was probably always destined to be a strong crypto industry, and 2021 proved to be a fantastic year for NEAR-based gaming projects. We expect this Web3 gaming momentum to carry over into 2022. 

In 2021, OP Games, a blockchain-based Web3 gaming platform, began transforming how users buy, own, and trade in-game assets. Unlike current gaming platforms, which often monopolize worlds by sandboxing digital assets, OP Games is offering them as NFTs and turning entire games into fractionalized NFTs. This way, players and fans can co-own projects and, if the game finds success, shape how it develops through its DAO. 

Similarly, Vorto Network began developing its online marketplace, where users will be able to buy in-game items and digital assets through a crypto wallet. Hash Rush, a blockchain-based, real-time strategy (RTS) game set to launch on Vorto Network in January 2022, will let players immerse themselves in the Hermeian galaxy, where they build, compete, and exchange goods through various levels. Hash Rush will be a great example of Web3’s “play-to-earn” model, which creates a digital goods economy for participants. 

Another title, NEAR Lands, is a pixelated land-based open-world game designed as much for the community as the gameplay. In the NEAR Lands online universe, players create characters and items, as well as engage with friends and other participants, while adventuring through the game’s landscape. 

As Q4 drew to a close, Inite earned a $50,000 grant to help build its NFT gaming platform. A unique type of Metaverse experience, Inite is a motivational game based on the scientific method, where players receive daily tasks designed to boost their creativity. By playing Inite, players can earn tokens by generating ideas to improve individual cognitive skills and productivity. 

NFTs 
Even more than gaming, 2021 was a strong year for NFTs. And with NFTs percolating into the public consciousness, it’s easy to see why. Paras and Mintbase, two NEAR NFT marketplaces, led the charge in bringing more NFTs to the NEAR ecosystem. 

Mintbase, which began building on NEAR in August of 2020, officially launched in 2021. The team had originally begun developing on Ethereum, but migrated over to NEAR when it became prohibitively expensive for them. With its fast transaction speeds and low costs, NEAR was the obvious choice for Mintbase, which hosts its own NFT marketplace but also has an NFT utility engine that helps people build their own.  

In early December, electronic music DJ and producer deadmau5 and indie rock band Portugal. the Man collaborated with Mintbase and NEAR to mint their NFT single “this is fine”. If deadmau5 and Portugal. the Man go platinum (sell more than 1 million records in the US), they will make blockchain history. It’s already putting Mintbase firmly on the NFT map. 

The NFT marketplace Paras offers real-world trading cards of artworks as collectibles, which users can quickly mint, buy, and sell quickly at little cost. Paras recently launched Boom Boom! the first mini digital comic series on NEAR, and PARADIGM. Both of these are part of Paras Comics, the platform’s new comics-specific feature. The Paras marketplace already has thousands of users purchasing one-of-a-kind NFT collections. It also boasts over 18,000 Twitter and 3,000 Telegram followers—a testament to its rapidly expanding community. 

From July 17th to the 25th, 2021 at the Shanghai National Exhibition and Convention Centre, Paras collaborated with Web3Games and NEAR to showcase Chinese artists who were selling NFT artworks at an exhibition. One artist, Huang Heshen, created the “Toorich City Series”, a collection of exclusive NFTs on Paras that explores Bu Tu Garden Community, a digital set of 10 luxury single-family villas.

Elsewhere in China, the NEAR dApp Feiyu recently debuted. Built atop NEAR, Feiyu is a new take on social media, where users express creativity by sharing memes and GIFs. All of this happens in an NFT-based metaverse where users don’t have to register a wallet. Driven by rewards, Feiyu users earn tokens or NFT items (skins, weapons, etc.) for participating in the community.

On the audio NFT front, DAO Records is working to reimagine the record label and to fairly pay musicians for their recordings. In the current music industry model, record labels and streaming services take the majority of musicians’ earnings. With DAO records, the founders are encouraging independent artists to release and package new music as audio NFTs. 

To Date, DAO Records has released over 150 NFTs from over 100 artists. And in the last 14 months, DAO Records has also produced over 50 virtual events, where musicians, fans, and NFT lovers can meet and socialize in custom-designed Metaverse gatherings. 

Metaverse 
While much crypto momentum found its way into DeFi and NFT apps, a number of Metaverse apps also launched on NEAR in 2021. These Metaverse apps laid the groundwork, in their own unique ways, for integration with blockchain gaming, DeFi, NFTs, and other crypto projects. 

Metaverse AI, for example, is developing an Open Metaverse for Web3. Using Metaverse AI’s advanced AI engine, users will be able to create decentralized identities and high-fidelity 3D avatars. These blockchain-based DiD (decentralization identifier) avatars give users ownership of their virtual identities and assets, and the ability to move them across the larger Metaverse. 

Another NEAR Metaverse project is Reality Chain, which will launch on Octopus Network, a substrate-based appchain network on NEAR. Reality Chain offers users gaming and social activities with the feel of immersive, multiplayer functionality and features.

A radically different take on the Metaverse can be found in the Illust Space app. Billing itself as an “open augmented reality infrastructure for the world,” the Illust Space team is building an augmented reality Metaverse. The app gives users the tools to mix the real and digital worlds for their artworks while making them collectible through NFT technology. 

Also in 2021, NEAR debuted its MetaBUILD series, a hackathon designed to encourage developers to build on NEAR. As the name indicates, building the Metaverse is a major emphasis of this hackathon. The first MetaBUILD held August 27th to September 19th, and the latest, MetaBUILD 2 (December 22 – February 10, 2022), both made $1 million in prizes available to developers and teams.

DeFi 
DeFi, or decentralized finance, has become a cornerstone of any crypto ecosystem. In little more than 12 months since mainnet launch, there are now more than 40 DeFi projects calling NEAR home. From infrastructure providers like Rainbow Bridge, Flux and Aurora, to token swap markets 1inch, Trisolaris, and Onomy Protocol, there are staking platforms, lenders, borrowers, credit scorers, and even BananaSwappers. 

As noted above, both NEAR’s $800 million global ecosystem fund and Proximity Labs’ $350 million Grants DAO will support DeFi projects and other dapps building on NEAR. NEAR’s Nightshade sharding will also supercharge DeFI by expanding the blockchain’s transaction speeds and security. 

Launched this year, Aurora is one of the most notable DeFi projects on NEAR. A platform that makes EVM contracts interoperable on NEAR, Aurora allows developers to keep using Ethereum while boosting their apps with NEAR’s super-fast transactions and low barriers to entry. Aurora is partnering with a number of other promising DeFi projects on NEAR, like the cross-chain oracle Flux and Rose, a stable swap and borrowing protocol, to level up the ecosystem’s DeFi game. 

Yet another highly visible DeFi player on NEAR is Ref Finance, a community-led and multi-purpose decentralized exchange, asset issuer, and lender. Ref Finance accomplishes all of this through a single, synchronous DeFi stack. What’s more, it’s fun and easy to use. 

If you’re looking for an interest rate market protocol, then Burrow is a dApp to check out. And if you’re looking for a token launchpad, be sure to dive into Skyward Finance, a DeFi platform that makes token launches fair and community-centric, as well as bot and attack-resistant. Another cool thing about Skyward Finance is that its DAO gives the community access to the token launch immediately instead of letting front-runners like private investors and VC firms pump and dump tokens. 

If you’re looking for more on NEAR DeFi apps, we’ll be publishing an article on the top DeFi projects building on NEAR. So, stay tuned for that in the new year. 

The DAO Community is Growing
One of the major takeaways of 2021 is that NEAR’s community of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations is rapidly growing and diversifying. This is another trend that the NEAR ecosystem and larger blockchain community can expect to carry over into 2022 and beyond. 

Sputnik DAO V1, a hub for NEAR’s DAO ecosystem, currently has a total of 248 DAOs, with a total of 17,633 transactions for a total payout of 989,598 $NEAR ($9,292,324 USD). The Sputnik DAO hub now has a Total Value Locked (TVL) of 113,969 $NEAR ($1,070,164 USD). Factoring in those decentralized organizations in the Astro DAOs ecosystem, it’s safe to say there are now over 400 DAOs on the NEAR platform. 

Much of the DAO community growth can be seen in NEAR’s blockchain infrastructure and the DeFi space. The biggest DAO by total assets is Aurora, a token exchange bridge between NEAR and Ethereum, and Octopus, a platform for building appchains (independent, custom blockchains).

2021 saw explosive growth in how DAOs experimented with governance tooling on NEAR. In the first half of the year, SputnikDAO went through two iterations—one for disseminating the Community Fund and the other to incorporate custom call ability. By the time Astro DAO launched in October, there was such demand for its offerings that hundreds of DAOs came into existence in only 2 months. And in Q4, the NEAR community did quite a lot of thinking about liability protection, legal entities, and state regulation of DAOs. 

Creatives DAO, a fully community-run DAO Vertical, launched this year to support the ecosystem’s creative Guilds and DAOs. Discussions are just beginning about MultiDAOs, and how DAOs can better coalesce for collaborative decision-making efforts. NEAR is also supporting a research initiative hosted by Governauts that is examining DAO-based reward systems. 

DAO projects are being supplemented by DAO Guilds, which support these and other blockchain sectors with different resources. Various Guilds are even acting as specialized sub-DAOs working in areas like legal, software development, and DeFi. These and other Guilds are there for when app founders and developers want to tap into specific expertise and resources to improve their own project, technology, or DAO.

DaoBox, based in Switzerland, is another resource for projects and organizations looking to design DAOs. The company offers a toolkit for DAOs building in NEAR, helping them establish the DAO, get a headquarters address, raise funds, and stay compliant through accounting. 

A Brief Look Toward 2022
A number of developers building on NEAR will launch their projects in 2022, bringing many more DeFi, NFT, Gaming, Metaverse, and other exciting and cutting projects to the NEAR ecosystem. These teams came to NEAR because they know that whether you’re developing or simply using NEAR apps, joining the ecosystem is fast, easy, and secure.

With NEAR’s $800 million global ecosystem funding initiative, expect to see many more DAOs established as we head into 2022. These funds, alongside Guilds and other blockchain-based expertise and resources, will be vital in helping DAOs succeed and, just as importantly, bringing the masses from Web2 to the Open Web. 


NEAR Blockchain Operating System is Now Live on Near.org
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 25, 2023
Earlier this year, NEAR announced the Blockchain Operating System. An industry-first category, the BOS is a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences, compatible with any blockchain. 

A real alternative to the Operating Systems of centralized platforms, the BOS is now live at near.org. As a blockchain operating system for an open web, the BOS is accessible to everyone, not just web3 natives. And it makes Web3 and Web2 easier than ever to access and navigate for users and developers alike. 

With the BOS, you no longer have to choose between decentralization and discoverability. Devs and users get the best of both worlds, whether they are new to Web3 experiences and want to play around, or developers looking to build an open web. 

Seamless Web2 style onboarding for Web3
When entering Web3, users want an easy Web2-style onboarding experience. Until the BOS, this just wasn’t possible. 

With FastAuth, BOS users get to experience a simple and seamless Web2 style onboarding. Users can get started quickly by creating an account for any app on the BOS — without the need for crypto. 

By putting the user experience at the center, FastAuth creates a familiar style of onboarding experience, in which users can create a free account with biometrics, phone prompts, and an email address. Users can now quickly interact with an app without having to remember long seed phrases and other difficult passwords. 

This will help dramatically move Web2 users into the Web3 space with ease. 

Developers are empowered to start and build quickly
The BOS isn’t just built for Web3 natives. It’s designed for any developer interested in open-source and decentralization. 

To make Web3 app development fast and easy, the BOS offers a comprehensive set of tools and capabilities to get developers started quickly. These developer enablement tools and capabilities make it possible for developers to quickly build composable apps for the open web, as well as build complete projects using current workflows, seamlessly onboard users, get feedback from real users, and increase discoverability. 

From Day 1, any developer can start building on the BOS, making Web3 a more accessible space for all. 

Making Web3 search as intuitive as Web2
Finding things in Web3 isn’t always easy. While decentralization is a core attraction to Web3, this very same benefit can make it hard to discover everything that Web3 has to offer. 

The NEAR Blockchain Operating System fixes this problem with a comprehensive search experience. On the BOS, users can now quickly find all of the apps and components for building on Web3, as well as connect to people and communities. 

BOS users can quickly discover apps, components, and reference documents with an integrated search bar, filtering, and sorting panels. Comprehensive search and discovery also benefits developers, entrepreneurs, and projects across the BOS by exposing their work to a large audience. 

Add and maintain new app experiences with BOS gateways
The BOS also features gateways — access points to Web3 apps that pull front-end code directly from the NEAR blockchain and render it for their users. 

Gateways assume a variety of forms, from wallets and portfolio management tools to popular single-use applications — like, SWEAT — that want to add additional functionality. Gateways help with simple tasks, like adding swap functionality, all the way up to creating decentralized app stores, and much more. This functionality is available by simply adding a JS library, then choosing which app front-ends you want to include.

Typically in Web3, developers spend a lot of time building and getting their apps discovered. During this process, users often need to switch between multiple platforms to discover apps and experiences. Gateways help to overcome this by making it possible to meet users where they already are, while giving them a broader range of apps and experiences. 

Govern your Web3 experience with a content moderation framework 
Traditional content moderation processes — seen most notably in Web2 social network apps— are centralized and often lack transparency, making them ill-equipped to meet the demands of content that is potentially offensive, risky, or illegal. With the growing influence of Web3 platforms the need for an innovative solution that addresses these challenges is more critical than ever. 

The BOS features a scalable, open source content moderation system. With these BOS features, users can govern their own online experience. 

The moderation framework leverages the power of the BOS to tackle the many challenges of managing User Generated Content (UGC) through community engagement and automation, providing a scalable, transparent solution to content review that is easy to use and legally compliant. 

With a decentralized approach and community-driven governance and moderation, the BOS’s moderation framework is poised to redefine content moderation for Web3 platforms and contribute significantly to a healthier online environment for all stakeholders. 

Build and discover apps on NEAR: the Blockchain Operating System for an Open Web
Whether you’re a Web3 developer, founder, end user, or someone just looking to get into crypto, the NEAR Blockchain Operating System is your easy entry point into the Open Web. 

Experiencing the BOS is as easy as visiting Near.org. Let’s build an open web!


Remote Development and Debugging of Rust with CLion
DEVELOPERS
March 10, 2019
Rust, being a relatively new language, is still on its path to gaining wide support by IDEs. Most in our team use CLion for Rust development which is especially great for local debugging, alas it is not free. Since we are developing a blockchain it requires careful orchestration of the nodes running on separate machines, and occasionally we need to debug some corner case on a remotely running node. CLion and other JetBrains products have great support of the remote development and debugging. However, unfortunately, Rust is not a primary language of CLion which makes configuration tricky. In this post we walk through the configuration of CLion for remote Rust development and debugging, our goal is to be able to:

Synchronize source code between local and remote machines, so that local modifications are automatically copied over;
Compile and run on two different architectures: local Mac OS and remote Ubuntu;
Interactively debug in local IDE the code running on the remote machine;
Remote machine setup
We will be using an AWS instance running an Ubuntu image as a remote machine. The following ports would need to be allowed: TCP 22 for ssh and TCP 2345 for gdbserver. Our team also likes using mosh because it tolerates interrupted connections and allows moving between WiFi hotspots, which needs UDP 60000–61000 ports.

After launching an AWS instance and connecting to it through ssh or mosh, run the following commands on it:

apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl gdb g++-multilib lib32stdc++6 libssl-dev libncurses5-dev
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh -s — -y — default-toolchain nightly
Local machine setup
If you do not have Rust, run the following command to install it:

curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh -s — -y — default-toolchain nightly
You can download CLion from here, and upon its launch, you would also need to install the Rust plugin which can be found in Preferences→Plugins.

CLion deployment configuration
We will be using Actix repository as a debugging example, so you would need to download it from here: https://github.com/actix/actix and clone it locally, e.g. to /Users/<username>/Repos/actix, if you are on Mac OS. Open this project in CLion, but note that IDE might need time to update its indices and cache.

CLion deployment feature allows us to keep in sync the files on the local and the remote machines. It can also be used for a large number of other special cases used mostly for the web servers which we are going to omit in this post. We will use CLion deployment for copying the following files:

Source code from the local machine to the remote machine;
Debug symbols from the remote machine to the local machine.
In CLion open Preferences→Build, Execution, Deployment→Deployment. Click on + to add the new deployment configuration and fill it in:

Since we are using the standard AWS Ubuntu image, the default username is ubuntu. You would also need to go to the Mappings tab and add local to remote mappings of the project files, e.g.:
Local path: /Users/<username>/Repos/actix;
Deployment path: /home/ubuntu/Repos/actix.

If you already have more than one deployment configuration in CLion, you might want to right-click on the newly created configuration and select Set As Default.

Since we want to compile and run on two different architectures, we would need two folders for the build files. We will be using /Users/<username>/Repos/actix/target for the Mac OS build files, and /Users/<username>/Repos/actix/target_remote for the Linux build files. We want Linux build files to be synced to the local machine since we need the debug symbols, but we do not need to sync Mac OS build files to the remote machine. So go to Excluded Paths tab and add /Users/<username>/Repos/actix/target local path.

We also recommend going to Preferences→Build, Execution, Deployment→Deployment→Options and switching Upload changed files automatically to the default server to Always which will allow CLion to automatically copy locally modified source files to the remote machine.

Building on the remote machine
Before we can build the source on the remote machine, we need to copy it. Select the root folder in the Project tree (you might need to open it with View→Tool Windows→Project), in our case it is actix. Right click →Deployment→Upload to remote machine. Wait until the files are copied. Then SSH/Mosh into the remote machine and run:

cd /home/ubuntu/Repos/actix
cargo build — package actix — example ping — target-dir ./target_remote
gdbserver 0.0.0.0:2345 ./target_remote/debug/examples/ping
CLion does not automatically synchronize new files, it only does it with the changed files, so we need to manually download target_remote to the local machine. Navigate to Tools→Deployment→Browse Remote Host, which will open a window with the remote file system view. Locate /home/ubuntu/Repos/actix/target_remote, then right-click→Download from here.

Debug configuration
Now it is time to connect local CLion to the remote machine. Navigate to Run→Edit Configurations, click on + and select GDB Remote Debug. Configure it like this:

Start the debugging and observe that the execution stops at the breakpoints and we can observe the values of the variables.

Compiling on several architectures
Recall that we used target_remote folder for remote build files from Ubuntu. If we now execute the standard Rust build command from CLion, by e.g. clicking on the green arrow next to the main function or unit tests, CLion will use a different target folder for Mac OS build files.

Missing features
In general, JetBrains IDEs provide several ways of doing remote debugging for each language, but since Rust is not the primary language of CLion and requires a plug-in, remote debugging of Rust is currently limited to using gdbserver. It has several disadvantages from a UX perspective:

There is a need to copy symbol files. Build directory can get quite heavy, especially since cargo accumulates old build files until they are cleaned with a manual command;
Some interactive UI features of CLion do not work with gdbserver. For instance with local debugging one can click on a specific unit test and run it, with gdbserver that would require restarting it on the remote machine with special arguments;
Need to start gdbserver.
The solution to all this is using remote host toolchains that would allow the local IDE to access the remote cargo to build and run remote programs. This feature is available in PyCharm using “SSH Interpreter” and for C++ in CLion, but unfortunately it is not yet supported with Rust.

For those interested in Near Protocol: we build a sharded general purpose blockchain with a huge emphasis on usability. If you like our write-ups, follow us:

http://twitter.com/nearprotocol
https://discord.gg/nqAXT7h
https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore
 

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEARcon Zero
COMMUNITY
January 31, 2020
Welcome to the NEAR Community!
(Or welcome back if you’ve been with us for a while)

We are really excited to share with you the latest developments in the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR Core Contributors are currently gathering in Argentina for NEARCon Zero: two weeks of hacking, strategy and, of course, some sightseeing.

The growth of the NEAR collective and community opens up a lot of new doors between teams and with external contributors. Ultimately, we want to get lots of enthusiastic and bright people involved in our journey of developing NEAR. We are taking these two weeks to figure out the best strategy for growing the NEAR family and improving our communication.

The most important development will be us moving internal and external communication into a public forum. This change will not happen in one day, but will be a continuous process. We just launched it, so be nice!

The forum has been developed in collaboration with the commonwealth.im team. Please let us know if you have any feedback, ideas for features or want to share your thoughts.

You’ll also notice we’re making these updates shorter. If you like the original format, please let us know in the forum!

Here’s a pic from the crew taking over a whole restaurant for dinner 🍽.

Engineering: Doomslug has shipped!

Doomslug is a construction that allows finalizing blocks for most practical purposes in a single round of communication, while still getting full BFT finality after two rounds of communication.

To learn more about Doomslug head over to the research paper and our blog. If you’re new to the community, you might wonder why this matters. The primary reason this is important is that it’s safe and it’s fast. In a lot of cases, you need to pick one. You can see an artist’s rendition of doomslug below.

Finally, we want to highlight the use cases Flux shared this week. Flux is one of the projects building on NEAR. They are publishing new Twitter threads every Friday, so make sure to follow them.

Upcoming Events 
We are going to be at ETHDenver between the 14th and 16th of February
And at the same time, you can meet us at SF Developer Week Expo and Hackathon
Once again, if you’re a developer, student, or entrepreneur interested in joining us at DevWeek2020, fill out this brief survey for a chance to get some free tix.

Pic below: The kickoff presentation for NEARcon Zero
Marieke Flament Appointed CEO of NEAR Foundation To Spearhead Growth
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 16, 2021
The NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce it has selected global executive Marieke Flament as its new CEO, effective January 1, 2022.  

The appointment comes at an exciting time for the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR blockchain is a permissionless, proof-of-stake carbon-neutral blockchain designed to be super-fast, incredibly secure, and infinitely scalable. NEAR is backed by top VCs including A16Z, Pantera Capital, and Electric Capital.

In October 2021, the NEAR ecosystem announced $800 million in funding initiatives targeted at accelerating growth. The announcement, which includes the $350 million in funding announced by Proximity Labs, is designed to build on the momentum in the NEAR ecosystem over the last 12 months. In addition, NEAR recently closed partnerships with Opera and The Wharton Business School, started working with crypto payment provider MoonPay to make NEAR accessible in 150 countries worldwide, and continued collaborating with Near Inc. to launch Simple Nightshade, the first step towards a fully sharded blockchain. 

“We are delighted to have Marieke join NEAR to help accelerate our next phase of adoption and help us realize our vision.” shared Illia Polosukhin, Co-Founder of NEAR. “Her skills and experience are the perfect blend to help NEAR reach its next phase.” 

Flament brings a wealth of international business experience to the role, as well as in-depth knowledge about the world of crypto and fintech. Born in France, Flament trained as a computer engineer and has worked across the globe in a diverse range of companies from the luxury giant LVMH of Louis Vuitton fame to Boston Consulting Group, Expedia’s Hotels.com, crypto giant Circle and more recently Mettle by Natwest. 

During her time at Circle she was Managing Director of European operations, where she took to market several products and built a user base from 0-2 million in less than 2 years. Shortly after that she became the company’s first Global CMO, leading the branding and rollout of USDC – one of the world’s most successful stablecoins. 

After her position at Circle, Flament became the CEO of SME banking app Mettle by Natwest, targeting the passion/creator economy. During her time in the role, she launched the app and grew the team from 50 to 250 employees. Mettle has gained widespread customer acclaim  (above 4.8 app store rating) and has become one of the bank’s biggest product success stories.

Flament is passionate about exploring the ways in which technology can be used to change people’s lives, and is an advocate for diversity and inclusion in finance and technology. She was recognised in the Women in FinTech Powerlist in 2017 and 2019 and she is frequently quoted by the press; including The BBC, The Telegraph, Fortune, The Financial Times, Reuters, Forbes, and City AM. 

“I am absolutely delighted to be joining NEAR,” said Flament. “The tech, the team, and the community are absolutely fantastic. I look forward to working with Illia and the NEAR Foundation team to help achieve NEAR’s vision and bring OpenWeb technology to millions of users. And most importantly I look forward to serving and supporting the NEAR ecosystem.” 

“NEAR is a unique, once-in-a-lifetime global opportunity to shape the future by democratizing access to the tools that people need to create service for everyday life,”  added Flament. 

”With its permissionless, proof-of-stake blockchain, NEAR has the capability to help us unlock many of the long-promised uses of the technology and to create products and services that promote greater inclusivity and reflect the needs of the people they’re designed to serve. As the CEO, I am excited to play a role in achieving the foundation’s aim and to ensure that through collaboration and openness, the blockchain can be used as a true force for good.” 

Since its launch in 2020, NEAR’s ecosystem has seen a surge of activity. To date, it has processed more than 50 million transactions, across more than 1.7 million accounts, and helped incubate and foster over 200 projects and 300 DAOs.

“A huge thank you to Erik Trautman, who has been instrumental in helping NEAR reach those major milestones and will continue as board advisor to help advocate and grow the NEAR ecosystem,” said Polosukhin. 

Excitement continues to build around the potential of the NEAR blockchain. Unlike other networks, NEAR gives software developers easy access to build new crypto applications, from Non Fungible Tokens (NFTs) to decentralized finance products –  and to launch new business models and consumer products.  It’s also much faster than Ethereum – the world’s most used blockchain – capable of 100,000s of transactions per second, versus ETH’s 45, and charges 1000x lower transaction fees. However, instead of competing directly with Ethereum, NEAR runs in concert with it, along with other blockchains, allowing for the free flow of assets and communication between networks for the betterment of all.  

NEAR’s foundation aims to help evangelize, raise awareness, support, and grow this ecosystem and allocate grants on behalf of the ecosystem. To date, the foundation has allocated over $45m to new projects.
2023: NEAR In Review
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 20, 2023
by Illia Polosukhin

While this was a tough year in the market, we’re closing 2023 on a higher note for Web3. The NEAR ecosystem has made great progress on many fronts.

Here’s a recap of some highlights and accomplishments from this year and a brief look ahead at 2024.

Year in Review
The NEAR ecosystem has made great strides in 2023 towards realizing the vision of mainstream adoption of the Open Web in spite of tough market conditions. Four of DappRadar’s top ten apps in all of Web3 are built on the NEAR Protocol and daily active users now regularly exceed a million per day. 

From launching the Blockchain Operating System in February to NEAR DA in November, the NEAR ecosystem is offering solutions to builders across all Web3 networks to deliver the vision of the Open Web. With 7 million monthly active accounts, 35 million total accounts overall, and a current average of over 2 million transactions per day, the NEAR ecosystem has seen substantial growth in usage this year—and keeps outpacing its peers in terms of daily usage. 

A lot of exciting technology built on NEAR was also released this year to enable chain abstraction. At EthDenver in February, NEAR Day featured the debut of the Blockchain Operating System—a fully decentralized open web stack and common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences. By making it easier to build and deploy decentralized on-chain frontends for any network, B.O.S. helps developers build more discoverable and resilient apps while hiding the blockchain infrastructure from users.  

Building on the benefits of the NEAR account model, the FastAuth onboarding solution lets users create an account in seconds using only an email address and device security. App developers can subsidize gas so users can start using apps immediately upon creating their account, and they only need to set up once in order to access any app on B.O.S. The team has gotten great feedback on the beta and will share some exciting next steps early next year. 

B.O.S. also includes NEAR QueryAPI, a fully managed, open-source, serverless infrastructure offering NEAR blockchain indexers, storage, and GraphQL endpoints. QueryAPI simplifies the indexer building experience with JavaScript and interactive debugging and eliminates the need to manage cloud infrastructure. The beta already powers 25 indexers in production.

Beyond rollups using decentralized frontends, I shared the news of 3 exciting Ethereum alignment initiatives to offer NEAR technology to the modular Ethereum ecosystem and benefit the broader Open Web. The collaboration with Polygon Labs on a zkWASM prover will optimize the NEAR L1 and bring NEAR to the forefront of the zero-knowledge research space. 

The Foundation is working with Eigen Labs to build a fast finality layer for defragmenting Ethereum rollups and also launched NEAR DA, a cost-efficient and data availability layer compatible with L2s offering 11,000x cheaper DA than Ethereum and 30x cheaper than Celestia.

NEAR reached #1 in daily active users for all of Web3 to close the year, per Artemis.
4 of the top 10 apps in all of Web3 are built on NEAR & Aurora, per DappRadar’s 30-day ranking.
Looking Ahead
As we look towards 2024, the ecosystem will build upon the innovations and market recognition of 2023 with some major advancements at every layer of NEAR’s open web stack, plus expand into exciting new territory on the AI and product fronts. 

2024 is the year of chain abstraction: blockchains and other infrastructure will become increasingly invisible to users and developers. Just as we don’t need to know if a given website or app we’re using every day is running on Google or Amazon servers, most app users on the Open Web shouldn’t need to manage infra, toggling between accounts and wallets, bridging, or gas. This is the biggest barrier to mainstream adoption. 

The NEAR ecosystem has been building for chain abstraction since the very beginning with sharding and the account model, and more recently the B.O.S., FastAuth, and ETH alignment solutions. From the user perspective the NEAR blockchain functions like a single platform, but under the hood, every account and smart contract is its own logical chain. 

Developers today pick an ecosystem based on where they can access liquidity and users, but that will matter less if they can access users and deposit liquidity from any chain – so they can just choose the infrastructure that works best for their application. 

A big part of advancing chain abstraction for the Web3 space is account aggregation. In order to enable users to transact across all blockchains without needing to think about underlying infrastructure or switch networks, they need a single account from which they can navigate all of Web3. In the true spirit of Web3, this single account should be non-custodial and non-dependent on a specific wallet software or any other single service provider. In addition to FastAuth, Pagoda will launch chain signatures and intent relayers to deliver the full scope of this vision in the first half of 2024.

At the protocol level, the team will launch Phase 2 of sharding, which is a big deal. TLDR: introducing stateless validation will expand the original Nightshade design, allowing us to avoid fraud proofs. As part of this transition, the state of each shard moves fully into memory, improving performance of each shard—currently 4, soon to be 5—by 10x+. Adding zkWASM on top as the next step will compress execution proofs, enabling even greater decentralization of validators. 

Finally, the NEAR ecosystem will make bigger strides into AI. I’ve been sharing my views on how AI and blockchains can work together with humans to improve our collective systems and individual experiences while minimizing risk and centralization. We’re working both on AI-driven governance and AI-augmented Web3 experiences to work towards the vision of user-owned AI. 

Stay tuned for more updates and specifics in January 2024. Thank you to every member of the NEAR community for staying the course and believing in our shared Open Web vision.
NEAR Digital Collective’s I-AM-HUMAN Welcomes Its First 1000 Verified Humans
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 16, 2023
NEAR Foundation is thrilled to share some inspiring news today. The I-AM-HUMAN project, a cornerstone proof-of-humanity initiative of the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC), just achieved a significant landmark of welcoming 1,000 verified community members to our growing ecosystem. 

This critical milestone underscores the NEAR Foundation and NDC’s commitment to fair and equitable digital governance and representation built on NEAR.

The impact of I-AM-HUMAN’s 1,000 verified users
What does it mean to have 1,000 verified users? Simply put, it means 1,000 verified, unique human voices; 1,000 individual perspectives; and 1,000 contributors to NEAR Foundation’s mission of democratizing the digital world. 1,000 verified community members now have the opportunity to engage in governance voting, build an on-chain reputation, drive grassroots funding, and unlock the truly transformative power of DAOs.

This active engagement is helping reshape the way key decisions are made, moving away from centralized control and towards a truly decentralized, democratic governance model. 

Distributing voting power to the people with “Soul Bound Tokens”
I-AM-HUMAN is all about fairly distributing voting power to the people. At its heart is the concept of “Soul Bound Tokens” or SBTs. These aren’t your average digital tokens —each SBT represents a real individual, flesh-and-blood human being, verified through our innovative and user-friendly proof-of-humanity identity verification process. SBTs are the digital embodiment of you, assuring that your voice counts, and making the principle of “one person, one vote” a reality in the digital realm.

Minting your SBT is easy and only requires a NEAR wallet and your (adorable) human face. And don’t worry about what you look like since the image is encrypted and never seen by anyone. In fact, you always have the right to request the deletion of your data from I-AM-HUMAN and our partner Fractal. If you haven’t yet done so, give it a shot! It only takes a minute or two and we would love to have you be part of this important initiative. 

We’ve made sure the process of getting your unique SBT, or putting a digital stamp on your individuality, is simple and accessible. With Fractal’s help, we’ve been able to keep this process secure and respectful of your privacy rights, which for the NDC, is of paramount importance. 

“With the creation of the I-AM-HUMAN protocol, NDC sets a new standard for on-chain identity verification, empowering individuals to assert their humanity securely and transparently in the digital realm,” says Jane Wang, Product Lead at NDC Governance Working Group. “The I-AM-HUMAN protocol opens up a world of opportunities, from secure voting and governance participation to fair airdrops and reputation systems. We’re thankful for our partnership with Fractal, who has made the journey smooth with their field-tested identity solutions at NEAR.”

Other NDC Initiatives on the horizon
As NEAR Foundation and the NDC celebrate this major milestone, the commitment to innovation and improvement continues. The NDC is determined to provide an ever-improving experience for users, with initiatives underway to constantly improve user experience, strengthen data privacy, and expand our availability within the NEAR ecosystem. The NDC is actively creating a partnership roadmap for other organizations to leverage our proof-of-personhood solution, helping to empower our partners to ensure equitable decision-making within their own ecosystems.

The journey to 1,000 users has been exciting, but the NDC is far from finished. Every new user brings us one step closer to NEAR’s vision of a digital world where each individual’s voice is respected, and where the democratic process isn’t just a principle, but a practice.

So, if you haven’t already, we invite you to become a part of this revolutionary journey. Mint your own SBT, join our community, and make your unique mark in shaping the future of decentralized governance.

The NDC extends its deepest gratitude to each and every one of you for taking the opportunity to unlock elections, governance, and community treasury with us. These first 1,000 users are opening the door for thousands more to come. 
For updates, follow NDC on Medium and stay connected with us on this revolutionary journey!
NEAR Community Update: February 22, 2019
COMMUNITY
February 22, 2019
Lately it’s been a blur of events as we talk to developers both in and outside of the blockchain ecosystem and learn more about what they need in a decentralized platform. This weekend, we’re at the SF Developer Week hackathon helping developers work with the platform (and awarding a number of challenge prizes). If you’re in town, stop by and say hi!

Community and Events
We’ve touched Denver, Boston, San Francisco and multiple locations in Asia with no sign of stopping yet. A key upcoming event actually doesn’t have a specific location — on March 5 at 4pm PT / 7pm ET, we’ll host an online Decentralized App Development Workshop where anyone can code along and see what the platform can do.

If you want to host a local NEAR meetup in your city or see if we can meet with yours, reach out to [email protected].

Recent Highlights

[Denver] Feb 12: Sneak Peak Workshop: NEAR DevNet with ETH Denver
[SF] Feb 13: Blockchain 101 Onramp: DApp Development Basics
[Denver] Feb 15–17: Judging the Eth Denver hackathon (Illia Polosukhin)
[SF] Feb 19: NEAR Protocol DevNet Test Drive with ABC Blockchain
Alex Skidanov speaking at SF Developer Week:

Upcoming Events

[San Francisco] Feb 23–24: Developer Week Hackathon
[Boston] Feb 23: Harvard Business School 2019 Crypto Club (with Alex Skidanov)
[Beijing] Feb 23: Blockchain 3.0 — The Evolution in Blockchain DApps
[SF] Feb 26: Giving power back to developers: Preview of a new computing platform (@Github)
[Oakland] Feb 27: Near Protocol — DevNet Workshop (@Oakland Developers)
[SF] Feb 27: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Best Practices for Developing DApps
[Shanghai] Feb 28: Blockchain 3.0 — The Evolution in Blockchain DApps
[Mountainview] Feb 28: Learn Blockchain Tools and Technologies that Enable Smart Contracts
[ONLINE] March 5 @ 4pm PT / 7pm ET: Decentralized App Development Workshop
[Paris] March 8–10: Events around Eth Paris
[Austin] March 14–16: Events around SXSW
[San Jose] March 21: Blockchain Developer Meetup
[SF] Mar 28: Decentralized Computing with WASM @ Github
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

Writing and Content
Alex Skidanov spoke to Justin Drake of the Ethereum Foundation in the latest installment of our Whiteboard Series about the design and implementation of Ethereum Serenity, beacon chains, shard chains, randomness, cross-shard transactions, LMD ghost and Casper FFG. Yes, it ran a little long…

We’ve also translated the Beginner’s Guide to the NEAR Blockchain into Japanese. If you want to make a translation yourself, please reach out to [email protected].

Engineering Highlights
Now that our single-node DevNet is active, we’re focusing on making the user experience better and the technology behind it more robust. That means continuing to build out documentation, stabilize the node and smooth out the user experience throughout the NEAR Studio IDE. Upcoming weeks will see big upgrades in all of these areas as well.

The next blockchain milestone is the multi-node AlphaNet, expected out in early March. We’ve updated to a newer, simpler consensus called Nightshade.

There were 40 PRs in nearcore from 8 different authors over the last couple weeks.

DevNet update

Initial working API for cross-contract calls using AssemblyScript.
Benchmarks for the client excluding network and consensus.
Launched NEAR Place app (https://app.near.ai/amsuwo78d/) as a showcase for the current development and user experience.
AlphaNet update

Finalized the design and implementation of a new consensus for beacon and shard chains called “Nightshade”, replacing previously used consensus “TxFlow”. See a draft of a paper for an early DAG-based version of Nightshade here, and a simplified version without a DAG here.
Started integrating Nightshade with the existing infrastructure.
Implemented an initial version of mempool and starting hooking it in, replacing the gossip DAG that was used previously.
NEARlib update

Improved API for connecting to DevNet
Integration tests for connecting to DevNet
Switched from Parity WASM interpreter to WASMER JIT. Got 100x raw improvement and 18x improvement when other components factored in.
NEARStudio update

Updated nearlib and corresponding fixes
Minor fixes to templates
AssemblyScript/bindgen
Updated bindgen to work with latest version of AssemblyScript
Fixed bug with duplicate bindings generated for encoding arrays of base types
How You Can Get Involved
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented (and humble?) teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings.

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.
What the NEAR Foundation Does
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 19, 2021
The NEAR Foundation (“NF”) is a unique kind of organization. It helped to launch both a technological platform — the NEAR Protocol — and the ecosystem around it.

The Foundation, which was introduced briefly last year, is a Swiss-based nonprofit, non-beneficiary organization which uses the power of its financial and operational resources to support the same mission as the overall NEAR Collective, which is the grouping of all active participants who make up and drive the NEAR ecosystem. This mission is:

…to accelerate the world’s transition to open technologies by growing and enabling a community of developers and creators.

In line with the core value of Openness, the goal of this post is to provide more clarity about how the NF organizes itself, how it operates, how it defines success and what vision it is working to achieve.

The Vision of the NF

While it shares a mission with the entirety of the NEAR Collective, the Foundation’s role in this is to realize a more specific vision: 

…a self-sufficient ecosystem of creators, developers, entrepreneurs, community members and tokenholders whose collaborative efforts make the NEAR ecosystem the best place to build massively impactful projects in the Open Web.

This vision requires that NEAR become the best ecosystem in the world on several fronts:

NEAR needs to have the best ecosystem-level clarity. This means that all participants in the ecosystem have a clear understanding of what the platform is good for, what’s going on in the ecosystem and how to access resources. Large-scale decisions that affect the community, for example large resource allocations or technical governance, are done with proper community input. 

NEAR needs to have the best onboarding. Within seconds of first hearing about NEAR, a prospective builder understands what they can build with NEAR and how it’s different from other options. Within the first minute, they are connected with a real human being who can help “sherpa” them through available resources. Within a few more, they are embedded in whatever communities can best support their journey by answering questions, testing products and driving early adoption.

NEAR needs to have the best founder experience. When building their organization, they have easy access to the information they need to make good decisions about hiring, incorporation, compensation, legal and regulatory matters. They have easy access to a clear menu of financing options and support as they navigate them. They have access to an informed, engaged and highly competent pool of human resources for all the roles they need to hire for.

NEAR needs to have the best developer experience. When building their product, devs are confident that they are building on the most reliable and effective technology possible. They have easy access to basic explanations, working examples and documentation. They clearly understand the ecosystem of tools, products and projects that are available to help them and their journey from idea to launch is rapid, iterative, painless and supported by an active, inclusive community. They are also supported by a wide range of project integrations (for example, wallets, payment processors and custody) both to help them build their product and take it to market.

NEAR needs to have the best go-to-market support. When initially testing their product, builders have easy access to an engaged community of early adopters who can help them rapidly find product/market fit. During launch, this community helps them evangelize the product. Builders have access to open knowledge bases of best practices for everything from consumer onboarding to security to growth strategies. After launch, they are supported by broad access to customers, deep secondary markets and continued access to partnerships, capital and exit opportunities.

The NF’s goal is to accomplish these things indirectly. Thus, rather than operating in the ecosystem as an active participant, wherever possible it will make sure this vision is realized by other members of the community in a high quality, scalable and ultimately self-sufficient manner. 

What does success for the NEAR ecosystem look like? Ultimately, it comes down to adoption — that the platform and its underlying protocol are in active use by a huge number of people and businesses around the world. While there are many ways to measure this, the most straightforward 3 which can be used to determine success in the next 18 months are that the NEAR ecosystem generates the most economic activity (GMV), support the highest total market cap of projects and host the most active users of any other blockchain-based ecosystem.

Analogues for understanding the NF

The NF’s mandate to provide support for the ecosystem, without actively operating it, doesn’t map exactly to any existing business model. It is closest to a full-service venture capital firm like a16z — its “portfolio” comprises all of the applications and companies that operate within the NEAR ecosystem. The NF’s job is to allocate them the resources they need to be successful while supporting them in whatever ways possible. All of this occurs within an extremely fast-moving, tech-forward and competitive space. 

There are a few key differences between the NF and a full-service VC:

The “return” of the portfolio is not capital but adoption of the protocol by each of the key stakeholder groups. So the NF will place its allocations with the intention of receiving better adoption above all else.
The NF operates at one level of abstraction higher than a VC firm. Rather than making bets in individual companies, it needs to operate more like a fund-of-funds model and make generalized allocation decisions across asset categories like other VC funds, DAOs, grant buckets and so on. That allows the NF to stay out of the day-to-day capital allocation game and focus on the high level ecosystem support. 
The NF operates at a much larger scale than a typical full service VC. Rather than just a portfolio of dozens of companies, the NF needs to support hundreds or thousands of developers, founders, integrators and beyond. So its support efforts need to scale to become fully open and community-driven wherever possible.
The NF takes on some aspects of a venture accelerator as well, in that, if the ecosystem is missing a particular element, it may incubate the team which develops this particular component or business until it is ready to spin out.
The NF shares another similarity to a defined-horizon VC fund — its long term mission is also to make itself completely unnecessary. In this case, that’s because a completely well-functioning antifragile ecosystem has all the components it needs to be successful regardless of the efforts of a foundation. Ideally, companies and communities combine to handle all of the governance, roadmapping and capital allocation activities that the NF handled during the early days of the ecosystem’s development.

In fact, success in 5 years means that the NF has wound down its core entity and sustainably handed off each of its core functions to teams within the ecosystem which have sustainable mandates.

The team of this foundation needs to combine a fanatical focus on adoption with an open source, community-first, inspiration-driven approach to creating alignment among ecosystem participants. Each person needs to be incredibly values-aligned with the 5 key NEAR values and each of its leaders will need to craft and communicate strategy both to internal teams at the NF and to the ecosystem overall.

Responsibilities of the NEAR Foundation

As a “portfolio manager” of the NEAR ecosystem, and inline with the vision above, NF is ultimately responsible for driving the success of the applications which make up this ecosystem via 3 major categories of activities:

Awareness: Raise awareness of the NEAR technology, platform and ecosystem such that more developers, community members, enterprises and entrepreneurs build new portfolio companies and projects. This combines education, evangelism, communications, PR, tokenholder relations, analytics and more. 
Allocation: Spend both its discretionary (100M NEAR token endowment) and advisory (major ecosystem token buckets) tokens to capitalize the best initiatives within the ecosystem. This is primarily via a fund-of-funds level of abstraction, so the NF is allocating resources to other people who will actually deploy them “on the ground”. Its only granular allocation tool is the Grants Program, which accepts applications for small grants for a wide range of ecosystem-supportive activities, which are at least partially informed by the NF’s roadmap. 
Support: Create as much value as possible for ecosystem projects without actually stepping in and operating at all. This means supporting in a number of key way, including creating the operating framework and coordination so the NEAR community is well organized, well supported and capable of routing people, answers and resources to the teams that would benefit most from them.
Operational Advisory: Create the self-serve resources, best practices and events which give projects the resources they need to solve problems with hiring, HR, legal, regulatory, financial and operational challenges.
A key question is also what the NF is NOT doing. Except in truly extraordinary cases, the NF is…

NOT going to market: NF is NOT operating GTM initiatives for any specific products or technologies to generate revenue or reach end-users unless it is a test case or early stage incubation for something that will be spun out as an independent initiative. When a project or initiative starts pushing to a market, it must be helmed by an entrepreneur and spun out.
NOT developing: NF is NOT providing direct development support to deals, companies or projects in the ecosystem. This is not a development shop. 
NOT running a true VC or syndicate: NF is NOT allocating to specific projects or entrepreneurs outside of the Grants Program because that doesn’t offer enough leverage. 
NOT a lawyer, accountant, etc: NF will contribute to legal and regulatory discussions but will never be a substitute for hiring professionals in these categories.
In each of these categories, NF may have some exposures but they are only temporary such that it is bootstrapping an effort or supporting an entrepreneur who can spin these things out. 

How NEAR’s Success is Defined

The NEAR ecosystem’s success is driven by 3 key priorities, which are shared by the NF:

Awareness: How many people know about and can accurately describe NEAR’s value proposition?
Adoption: How much usage is the platform getting from each of its key stakeholder groups:
Consumers (Monthly Active Accounts, “MAA”)
Financials, (Total Value Locked, “TVL”)
Developers, (Monthly Active Developers, “MAD”)
Apps, (Total financing raised)
Community Members, (Onchain Community Members)
Credibility / “Legitness”: Do people within each stakeholder group who know about NEAR have a very high opinion of its quality and prospects for success?
The NEAR ecosystem’s overall success is difficult to measure, but two metrics which represent opposite ends of the spectrum are the total market cap of projects within the ecosystem (but which can be influenced heavily by market forces) and the gross marketplace value of transactions driven by the platform (both on chain and off).

How Culture and Values Apply

NEAR has always been primarily driven by deeply technical people trying to apply the lessons of Silicon Valley startups to actually build something real humans want using the blockchain technology. This project wasn’t started and doesn’t continue because of commercial intent but rather to create a rippling wave of change and value creation across the application stack.

Our values reflect this and everyone actually works hard to live by them. Below are the values themselves as well as the way the NF specifically embraces them and where it needs to do better:

ECOSYSTEM-FIRST: always put the health and success of the ecosystem above any individual’s interest.
The NF works tirelessly to create value for participants in the ecosystem. Everything from resource sharing to team vesting contracts are structured such that what matters most is the overall health of the ecosystem.
OPENNESS: operate transparently and consistently share knowledge to build open communities.
The NF has historically been strong in the sharing of resources and education but needs to put the time into better communication around its activities in order to better include the community.
PRAGMATISM OVER PERFECTION: find the right solution not the ideal solution and beat dogmatism by openly considering all ideas.
The NF doesn’t play favorites and is ultimately here to make everyone successful, regardless of where they come from. It has avoided many pitfalls of bureaucracy along the way, and has a healthy dose of pragmatism. 
MAKE IT FEEL SIMPLE: strive to make the complex feel simple so the technology, platform and ecosystem are accessible to all.
The NF doesn’t make first party products but it is a service organization. Some of its services to teams in the ecosystem (eg routing deals or help requests or just making internal team requests for resources smoother) could be greatly simplified, which has been a focus in early summer 2021.
GROW CONSTANTLY: learn, improve and fail productively so the ecosystem and the community are always becoming more effective.
The NF has liberally supported team members in their personal (eg managerial) growth. Early summer 2021 efforts are focused on helping spread the resources for ecosystem participants to also learn and grow themselves, for example by contributing to the Open Web Atlas.
Operating the NF

The NF is a porous, open organization so many of its activities will be done as openly as possible but it still has many internal processes to keep the team aligned and performant. Its rhythm is as follows:

Annually: 
Performance reviews across all teams (NFC, leadership, team leads, members)
Review of Mission, Vision, Values and multi-year Objectives (NFC, leadership, team leads)
Quarterly:
Review individual team Missions and Visions (leadership, team leads)
Review prior quarter’s OKRs (leadership, team leads)
Submit, review and approve forward-looking quarter’s OKRs (leadership, team leads)
NF Council meets officially (NFC, leadership, team leads)
Monthly: 
Coordinate or seed the hosting of external-facing Town Hall events with the community (community team)
Prepare and publish the Ecosystem Review to NFC and to the community (leadership support team)
NF Council calls informally (NFC, Leadership)
Bi-weekly: 
Internal All Hands sessions to coordinate internal teams (everyone)
Review KR progress (leadership with team leads, team leads with members)
Coordinate 2-week sprints (team leads with members)
The Future and Scorecard of the NF

The NF has provided — and will continue to provide — many of the early resources that have been helpful to the early ecosystem but its ultimate goal is to make itself completely redundant and unnecessary by establishing robust communities across the ecosystem to handle all of its core functions.

As noted in the vision previously, the role of the NF is thus the role of any great entrepreneur — to scale itself out such that better teams and better leaders are able to take up the charge. It will bootstrap where necessary and then empower the ecosystem around it to improve and scale each of its areas of focus.

The NF has made extraordinary progress in less than 2 years towards creating a self-sufficient ecosystem but there is still plenty to bootstrap and many more handoffs to coordinate. NF will continue to deploy resources heavily to support key efforts but it will make sure all core support activities it provides are eventually made self-sufficient and are run by great entrepreneurs with sustainable businesses. 

Success for the NF in 5 years thus means that it has wound down its core entity and sustainably handed off each of its core functions to teams within the ecosystem which have sustainable mandates. It’s an ambitious goal but an achievable one.

In the long term, the NEAR ecosystem itself will become the hub of a global universe of blockchains which support the Open Web. While there are many paths to get there and it will ultimately be driven by the founders and developers of the NEAR ecosystem, the NF is here to guide and support their journeys all along the way.
NEAR 2019 Year in Review
COMMUNITY
January 8, 2020
We are excited to share with you our NEAR 2019 Year in Review. The year has passed at an accelerating speed, filled with events, community programs and lots of engineering work. We planted the seeds of a now growing global collective and iterated most of NEAR’s sharding design. While continuously marching towards mainnet, we want to take a moment to look back at NEAR 2019 Highlights. 

Content
We launched our Whiteboard Series, which features a collection of over 30 deep-dives into various blockchain protocols.
With finalising NEAR’s design, we started our Lunch & Learn Series on YouTube, providing a deep dive into the underlying mechanisms of NEAR protocol. 
Alex was live coding core features of the NEAR Protocol in October.
Research
Nightshade: Near Protocol Sharding Design
Near Protocol Randomness Beacon
Fast Finality and Resilience to Long Range Attacks with Proof of Space-Time and Casper-like Finality Gadget
Doomslug: block confirmation with single round of communication, and a finality gadget with guaranteed liveness
Events
Throughout 2019, we attended, spoke at and hosted over 50 meetups and discussions. Locations included: Tokyo, Paris, Berlin, London, San Francisco, San Jose, San Mateo, Oakland, Beijing, Shanghai, Boston, and Sydney.

ETH New York: we hosted two great panels and participated in more. Access some of the recordings here. 
Alex spoke at Web3 about the challenges of sharding.
We hosted several events during and after DevCon. 
Check-out our events at San Francisco Blockchain Week!
Community
We launched three unique community programs to support mission-aligned engagement, research, projects, and development. We want to give a big thank you to everyone who got involved!

Stakewars: Our incentivised testnet program; access overview and updates.
The Ambassador Program: Formalising community-driven contributions.
The Beta Program: Providing projects that are building on NEAR with engineering and fundraising support.
Join our mailing list to hear about important developments and to learn when we’re going to be in a city near you.

Our year in a gif — Goku going super Saiyan.
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring for across the board!

If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Community Update: February 14th, 2020
COMMUNITY
February 14, 2020
The event season begins! Starting off, you can find us at ETHDenver and Developer Week in San Francisco. Our team took extra care to create an amazing booth experience. Check-out the video below: 


At #ETHDenver we’re excited to bring our engineers, product, and accelerator team together with developers. If you are around, come chat with us at NEAR’s Friday ETHDenver workshop. Kendall and Illia will be talking about how to write, deploy and interact with Rust, TypeScript, and Solidity smart contracts on NEAR. You can find all the information you need about our hackathon prizes and workshops in the following blog. 

#DEVWEEK2020 @ilblackdragon on stage at @DeveloperWeek discussing #openweb participation. 🌎 pic.twitter.com/H295AEnidi

— NEAR Protocol (@NEARProtocol) February 13, 2020

New Release: The Open Web Collective Incubator and Accelerator
Many teams create exciting new projects at hackathons and then face the difficult decision of whether or not to continue them as side projects or even potentially as businesses. To help teams navigate this decision and then take the next step with their projects, we are supporting the launch of the Open Web Collective (OWC) Incubator and Accelerator.

The Open Web Collective, which is supported by NEAR, is a community of crypto-native entrepreneurs and mentors who are pushing past the hype and building the projects that will bring the vision of the Open Web to reality. They are looking for hungry and talented teams who need support from ideation all the way through funding.

Learn more and apply at https://openwebcollective.com/

Content Highlights
We released Doomslug, our new block production technique, a month ago. As a follow-up to the paper (and to make the content more consumable), we recently released a blog post that highlights how Doomslug compares to PBFT, Tendermint, and Hotstuff. Please let us know what you think about it or if you have any open questions. 

How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website. 

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
Vistara Lands in the NEAR Ecosystem for Seamless Base Layer Roll-up Deployment
DEVELOPERS
July 7, 2023
NEAR is welcoming Vistara, the groundbreaking rollup deployment framework, into the fold. Vistara is set to seamlessly integrate with the BOS for the end-to-end, multi-chain deployment of rollups. This alliance will accelerate the pace of blockchain innovation, making rollup deployment faster, more efficient, and accessible across multiple chains for all developers.

Vistara stands out as a game-changing one-click rollup deployment framework that simplifies creating application-specific rollups across multiple blockchains. Streamlining the intricate rollup deployment process into a straightforward, single-click operation, Vistara will build a front-end on the BOS to make user-friendly, multi-chain rollup deployment a reality.

Simplifying multi-chain roll-ups with Vistara on the BOS 
Existing frameworks such as Cosmos SDK and Substrate have sought to streamline certain software components in decentralized applications but often leave developers tied to one ecosystem that they must completely understand and master. Vistara will now present a unique solution by combining the BOS with backend chains like Ethereum and Celestia.

Vistara’s emphasis on simplifying rollup component creation aligns with NEAR’s vision of user-centric decentralization and a serverless Web3. With this new BOS front-end integration, developers in the NEAR ecosystem and beyond can now build and deploy rollups in one convenient location.

The result will be a user-friendly design that makes the deployment of a rollup as simple as selecting an option from a dropdown menu. The integration will also encourage a wider range of developers to build with rollups on the BOS with any chain, leading to a more diverse pool of innovations and robust growth.

Vistara’s integration not only simplifies the process but also expands the scope for innovation. It demystifies rollup creation, making it accessible to a broader range of developers. This inclusivity fuels a more diverse pool of applications, fostering growth and vibrancy within the NEAR ecosystem.

Vistara and BOS breaking base layer building barriers
Developing decentralized applications on base layers can be a complex process. Coordination of node operators, high costs, and extended development times are among the major challenges. However, Vistara is designed to confront these issues directly, streamlining the process and fostering efficiency.

Rollups — technologies that bundle or ‘roll up’ side-chain transactions into a single transaction — provide an effective solution. They help developers bypass the difficulties associated with building decentralized networks. Vistara leverages this rollup technology, pushing the NEAR ecosystem towards application-specific rollups. 

The solution effectively untangles the complexities tied to base layer dependencies, forging a development environment on the BOS that stretches beyond traditional base layer confines. With Vistara, multi-chain developers can now bring their applications to life more swiftly and efficiently than ever before.

To sum up, Vistara’s user-friendly, multi-chain rollup deployment capabilities on the BOS will have a huge impact on the NEAR ecosystem and beyond. The integration will take much of the complexity out of rollup deployment for anyone, helping Web3 creators, builders, and developers bring their applications to life faster than ever.
Register for NEAR’s March Town Hall: DAOs on NEAR
NEAR FOUNDATION
March 30, 2022
Hello, NEAR World. 2022 is shaping up to be the year of the DAO. Join the community for NEAR’s March Town Hall on March 21, 5:00pm GMT (1:00PM EDT/10:00am PDT) for a deep dive into NEAR’s ecosystem of DAOs. 

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament will open the Town Hall with some updates on the ecosystem and the Foundation’s progress in advancing Web3. 

There will also be a flurry of news and NEAR protocol updates, including ecosystem funding and education efforts, the MetaBUILD 2 winners, news on new events, and a panel focused entirely on DAOs. 

There will also be talk of Ukraine, especially how DAOs have stepped up and supported humanitarian relief efforts. 

MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon Winners
Since December, the NEAR community has been hosting the MetaBUILD 2 hackathon—the biggest one yet, with over 3,900 participants and 20+ partners. 

Pagoda’s Maria Yarotska will be at the March Town Hall to talk MetaBUILD 2, including how the war in Ukraine impacted the judging process. Maria will also update the community on the winning teams and projects, and will share information on upcoming hackathons. 

A Panel on DAOs
NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament will return to talk briefly about the DAO community on NEAR. There will also be a panel focused on DAOs, with surprise guests from several different Web3 platforms and DAOs.

Register for the March Town Hall
To join the conversation with the global NEAR community, register for the March Town Hall. 
Community Update: All our Node are Belong to You
COMMUNITY
September 29, 2020
Hello citizens of NEARverse! This is NiMA coming to you from a NEARby planet in the Milky Chain …

TL;DR: “For the first time, we can say that NEAR is officially and undeniably community operated.” – Erik “Twain” Trautman

We are collectively NEARing a new chapter in the journey of the NEAR community and network. The foundation has shut down all its nodes and effectively handed over the reigns of the network to a subset of pioneering node operators from the community and our NEAR Validator Advisory Board (aka NVAB).

In parallel we have also been doubling down on growing our builder community non-stop 24/7. Hack the Rainbow and our webinar series welcomed hundreds of new NEAR enthusiasts and developers to our ecosystem. We will also be sponsoring ETHOnline where we will introduce NEAR to the larger web 3 dev ecosystem with special focus on NEAR’s A++ usability.

MainNet Phase II: what it means for you …

NEAR’s transition to a fully community-governed permissionless network is unique and arguably a first of its kind in the blockchain space. In our Community Town Hall #1, Viktor (protocol specialist at BisonTrails) laid out a set of proposed processes and criteria for the upgrade to Phase II. A detailed overview of these criteria can be found on Github, but here we will go over some of the most important elements …

Important to note is that Phase II involves two distinct actions by the validators. An on-chain vote to unlock token transfers and an upgrade of the nearcore software to enable inflationary rewards. To ensure community members can participate, the vote will not happen until 100 million of tokens are claimed by the token holders. In aggregate there needs to be 200 million of the total 750 million tokens staked.

We understand that some of the participants in our recent Coinlist token sale have not yet received or claimed their tokens. Rest assured, since token transfer has not yet been unlocked for anyone. That will only happen after a successful vote to transition to Phase 2. The exact date for unlocking of tokens will be 40 days (reg. requirement) from Aug 25th or Oct 4th. Whichever is latest.

In case you have already received your tokens and would like to delegate to a staking pool you can do that by following the instruction on this page. The primary method for delegation described in this doc relies on CLI (command line interface), but one of our active ecosystem members (Dokia Capital) have developed a web interface for those who are not comfortable with CLI.

Lastly, we invite you to join the conversation on near.chat  #validator-lounge to get to know our validators and ask all your staking related questions!

Engineering Updates
Our engineering team is dedicating more resources to EVM on NEAR and Rainbow Bridge which should make it even easier for web 3 projects to add support for NEAR to their projects.

We made some improvements to our core testing infrastructure (1, 2, 3, 4);
We have redirected more engineering resources into polishing bridge and EVM. Approximately half of the core engineering team is now working on bridge and EVM;
We matched EVM gas to NEAR gas;
We are actively researching the idea of adding synchronous calls and we have brainstormed several designs in the last two weeks.
Edu Updates
Our devX and Edu teams, in collaboration with members of our dev community, have been producing tons of educational materials and workshops during Hack the Rainbow hackathon and webinar series.

Here’s a short list with direct links for your convenience 🤓

WASM v. EVM on NEAR: https://www.crowdcast.io/e/hacktherainbow/17
NEAR 102 – intro to NEAR for Web 3/Ethereum devs: https://www.crowdcast.io/e/hacktherainbow/13
NEAR Accounts and key registration 🔑 : https://www.crowdcast.io/e/hacktherainbow/7
Deep dive into ETH<>NEAR Rainbow Bridge 🌉: https://www.crowdcast.io/e/hacktherainbow/2
SkyNet (Sia) on NEAR 💥 : https://www.crowdcast.io/e/hacktherainbow/8
The State of DAOs (spoiler alert! NEAR is a perfffect match for DAOs): https://www.crowdcast.io/e/hacktherainbow/9
This week we’re reading, watching, …
Watch 👁 Open Web Collective held their final demo day for the first batch of projects on Crowdcast!

Read 📖 NEAR MainNet is now Community-Operated

Listen 👂 Mona El Isa joins Sasha on Building the Open Web podcast to talk about her journey from a trad. hedge fund manager to building the protocol for managing onchain assets.

 

That’s it for this update. See you in the next one!

Your friends,

NiMA and the NEAR team


NEAR Foundation and PipeFlare Team Up to Reshape Web3 Gaming
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 2, 2023
NEAR Foundation and PipeFlare, a trailblazing play-to-earn (P2E) platform, are partnering to reshape Web3 gaming by building on Aurora, NEAR’s Ethereum-compatible layer. As Web3 gaming on NEAR accelerates, PipeFlare will enable gamers to play, earn crypto, and engage socially in a decentralized environment. Collaborating with NEAR Foundation, PipeFlare aims to redefine scalability, security, and sheer enjoyment in Web3 by leveraging the EVM-compatible development capabilities of Aurora.

PipeFlare is one of the industry’s most reliable Web3-enabled gaming platforms, allowing users to earn cryptocurrency through gameplay, tasks, and activities. The partnership will help create more intricate, engaging Web3 games in a secure fashion. The collaboration will most certainly attract more users to Web3 gaming, while making NEAR a top choice for game developers.

Let’s delve into the PipeFlare and NEAR Foundation partnership, the advantages of the NEAR Blockchain Operating System and tech stack for Web3 gaming, and how the collaboration positively impacts the future of the NEAR decentralized gaming ecosystem.

Transforming play: PipeFlare’s NEAR-driven gaming evolution
Pipeflare is one of the most reputable P2E gaming sites in the industry, backed by some of the largest investors in the blockchain space like DCG and Horizen Labs. All PipeFlare transactions are published publicly as well, giving gamers more transparency and peace of mind in Web3 gaming, earning, transacting, and collecting.

Gamers can enjoy playing games, collecting free cryptocurrency from PipeFlare faucets, participating in airdrops, competing in weekly leaderboards, and earning rewards through the referral program. Additionally, players can buy and sell limited-mint NFTs on PipeFlare’s NFT marketplace. 

PipeFlare’s exclusive Pyro NFT also brings perks like staking bonuses and a secret fourth crypto faucet to users. A dedicated support team demystifies blockchain and NFTs, while NEAR’s scalability enhances transactions without sacrificing speed or efficiency. This paves the way for PipeFlare’s explosive growth in the dynamic Web3 gaming market.

As security becomes more paramount in safeguarding digital assets and identities in Web3 gaming, PipeFlare is now embracing the speed and security of NEAR infrastructure. This ensures the protection of user data and assets and provides a cutting-edge, trustworthy, and reliable Web3 gaming experience for users to explore and enjoy.

Making Web3 Gaming more scalable, secure, and dev-friendly
NEAR’s intuitive, developer-focused platform offers substantial advantages for PipeFlare, simplifying game development and empowering creators to craft groundbreaking Web3 gaming experiences for veteran gamers and newcomers alike. But the PipeFlare and NEAR Foundation collaboration will transcend mere technology integration. Harnessing the BOS, PipeFlare can introduce even deeper functionality to players in areas like NFTs, in-game token rewards, and community engagement. As one of the only platforms where NFTs can be ported into multiple games, PipeFlare is breaking new ground in the industry.

NEAR Foundation is excited about this new portable NFT model in Web3 gaming, and will focus on the following three areas to help accelerate PipeFlare:

Scalability. One of the biggest challenges facing Web3 gaming is scalability. Traditional blockchains are not designed to handle the high volume of transactions required for gaming. NEAR is a high-performance blockchain that can handle a large number of transactions per second, making it ideal for Web3 gaming.
Security. Another important factor for Web3 gaming is security. Players need to be confident that their data and assets are safe when playing games on the blockchain. The BOS uses a variety of security measures to protect gamer data and ensure the protection and provenance of all digital assets.
User-Friendliness. Web3 gaming needs to be user-friendly to succeed and grow in the long term. Users need to be able to easily create and manage their accounts, buy and sell NFTs, and play games. With the BOS being one of the most developer-friendly ecosystems to build on, PipeFlare is set to make big strides in Web3 gamer onboarding.
To get the ball rolling, the partnership will initially focus on upgrading Pipeflare’s existing games and developing new ones using the BOS. This transition will enhance the gaming experience for users and showcase the capabilities of NEAR’s technology in the Web3 gaming space.

The collaboration also marks substantial progress for the Web3 gaming industry, demonstrating that key players recognize NEAR’s potential. It also signals NEAR’s strong positioning to emerge as the premier blockchain for novel gaming experiences.


NEAR Community Update: March 8, 2019
COMMUNITY
March 8, 2019
It has been enormously gratifying to sit down with some of the top teams from across the ecosystem and watch them get excited about what this platform can provide both their developers and end-users. We certainly have a long way yet to go but our goal of making blockchain development and usage intuitive is resonating in all the right places.

Every week we have more to show off. We’re rapidly closing in on our multi-node AlphaNet release and are upgrading the developer tools from proofs-of-concept to professional grade.

We’ve also released our new website and will soon introduce a new member of the family to help guide the user journey:

Community and Events
Another weekend, another hackathon! This time you can find us at ETH Paris giving away coffee and showing off our new development environment. More on that in the next update.

We’ve now run dozens of in-person workshops across multiple continents and are starting to enter the online space as well to help give the community more opportunities to learn about the platform. Our first online event was the Decentralized App Development Workshop but it certainly won’t be the last.

If you want to host a local NEAR meetup in your city or see if we can support yours, reach out to [email protected].

Recent Events

[San Francisco] Feb 23–24: Developer Week Hackathon
[Boston] Feb 23: Harvard Business School 2019 Crypto Club (with Alex Skidanov)
[Beijing] Feb 23: Blockchain 3.0 — The Evolution in Blockchain DApps
[SF] Feb 26: Giving power back to developers: Preview of a new computing platform (@Github)
[Oakland] Feb 27: Near Protocol — DevNet Workshop (@Oakland Developers)
[Shanghai] Feb 28: Blockchain 3.0 — The Evolution in Blockchain DApps
[Mountainview] Feb 28: Learn Blockchain Tools and Technologies that Enable Smart Contracts
[ONLINE] March 5 @ 4pm PT / 7pm ET: Decentralized App Development Workshop (video)
Upcoming Events

[Paris] March 8–10: Events around Eth Paris
[Tokyo] March 8: NEAR at Waseda University
[Tokyo] March 9: NEAR at HashHub
[Beijing] March 11: NEAR at Beijing AI
[Beijing] March 13: NEAR at Tsinghua University
[SF] March 20: Building on a Blockchain DevNet (Workshop)
[San Jose] March 21: Blockchain Developer Meetup
[SF] Mar 28: Decentralized Computing with WASM @ Github
[SF] Mar 29: Rust Latam conference
[San Mateo] Mar 30: San Mateo HS Hackathon
[Sydney] April 8: EdCon
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

Writing and Content
Aliaksandr Hudzillin wrote about Richard Stallman’s vision and how blockchain enables an open future in his piece on The Future of Software Innovation.

The Whiteboard Series continues strong with several new videos:

Harmony’s Rongjian Lan
Interledger’s Dan Robinson
Plasma Group’s Ben Jones
Engineering Highlights
On the application/development layer, we’ve built out the command line tools necessary to build, test and deploy apps to either a local DevNet or our hosted DevNet and upgraded the UI on our wallet. On the blockchain layer, we are finishing up what’s needed to release our multi-node AlphaNet.

There were 48 PRs in nearcore from 12 different authors over the last couple of weeks.

Blockchain Layer

TestNet “Alpha” version is finalized: NightShade consensus runs across multiple nodes with syncing & announcement of blocks, transaction and block proposal gossiping. See documentation on how to run multiple nodes locally.
Sped up BLS signature aggregation
Application/Development Layer

Released command line tools for local development, testing, and deployment
Improved NEAR Studio UI and added more templates.
Exposed cross-contract APIs in AssemblyScript and published an example with using another token contract.
Released new designs for the NEAR Wallet and NEAR website.
Released an image that deploys entire NEAR stack (NEARStudio, nearlib, wallet, DevNet, block explorer), which is useful for local development or continuous deployment.
How You Can Get Involved
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings.

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

 

https://upscri.be/633436/
Community Update: May 22nd, 2020
COMMUNITY
May 22, 2020
Our community is taking roots!

The past two weeks have been as exciting as ever. After Ready Layer One we received lots of community input, ideas, and contributions, some of which we highlight below. Community contributions are critical to the success of NEAR’s ultimate community governed mainnet. A BIG shout-out to every community member who is making this possible. 

Join our community on Discord to be the first to receive our announcements and contribute to NEAR.

Ready to Rewind
Thank you to all 3903 participants who made this event possible. If you missed a talk or simply cannot get enough (neither can we -squeak-), head over to the recordings. 

Ready Layer One: Day 1
Ready Layer One: Day 2
Ready Layer One: Day 3
We would love to hear your thoughts on how we can improve on the next open blockchain week (if there is one).

Take the Survey

Validator Telegram Bot
Yes, we know what you think “Yet another bot”. BUT HOLD ON — this Bot is special. It is not only created by Vadim, one of our Contributors, but it also makes the life of our validators much easier. 

The Bot can send NEAR tokens to existing blockchain and Telegram users. It also provides account details, a validator list and allows users to delegate tokens to their staking-pool contract.

Wait — You haven’t heard of Stake Wars yet?
Stake Wars Episode II is here. If you’re looking for ways to get involved in validation and testing our network, now is your time. This post discusses the unique features of validation and delegation on NEAR, and the rewards for successful participation. 

Flux <> NEAR
Flux published their recap of the past 60 days since starting the Open Web Collective, “We have shipped over 16,000 lines of code over 214 commits. These commits include the launch of V0.2 of our protocol, the flux open-source app, and flux SDK.” 

Read the entire update here.

Events: Time to Shine
RL1 Hackathon

The RL1 Hackathon has ended with 52 projects submitted & 229 participants. $7,500 in prizes were awarded. We will announce the winners soon.

UW Hackathon

Are you currently enrolled at a University AND want to get started developing on Blockchain? Say no more, this is your opportunity to show your skills. We have partnered with the University of Washington Blockchain Society to host a 3-day hackathon.

Sign-up

To learn more about the experiences of participants in previous hackathons, have a look at our recap of the Future of Blockchain Hackathon hosted by StakeZero Ventures.

Engineering Update 
We published near-shell 0.24.0!

Highlights include:

Ledger support (‘–useLedgerKey’, ‘–newLedgerKey’) 
‘near delete-key’
Metrics opt-in only in ‘near login’ and near ‘dev-deploy’ (to avoid messing with scripts)
Content Highlight
Podcast by Outlier Ventures with Illia on onboarding 99% of developers into Web3
Blog post by Felix Machart from Greenfield One on NEAR’s developments
This is your chance to get started developing on NEAR with our tutorials on

Exploring AssemblyScript Contracts
Exploring Rust Contracts
Exploring NEAR APIs
How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.


Refining NEAR Foundation’s Grant Approach
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 3, 2023

A few weeks ago, as part of a series of blogs on the state of funding, NEAR Foundation announced it would be examining its evolving funding strategy. This is in line with the Foundation’s  goal of providing a clear and concise update to continue to foster transparent communication. 

At this time, NEAR Foundation is actively working towards a more decentralized model of capital allocation that will initially involve the DeveloperDAO, MarketingDAO, CreativesDAO, with an additional DAO that will begin formation in Q1 of 2023. This will impact the ecosystem in the following ways:

Effective immediately, NEAR Foundation will cease allocating capital directly from our inbound start-up grants program, with the exception of our current events grants, which will be handed over to the MarketingDAO when they are set up to manage them. Request events funding by following the steps outlined here.
In January and February, we will be working directly with community members to outline a clear application process for funding via the DAOs. Processing time is expected to take 6-8 weeks. If you are interested in helping us form the new DAO with a focus on start-up projects, please submit your interest using this contact form.
Any  projects that have already received a portion of their funding and are working towards their agreed milestones will continue to be supported through the remaining milestones.
Any application that is not already in the approval stage will not receive funding. However, we will do our best to redirect you to appropriate, alternative funding sources.
NEAR Foundation’s goal is to empower the ecosystem to make decisions that support  the strategic approach that will drive NEAR  to the next phase of its roadmap, with a look ahead at new areas of product and development, as outlined in the NEAR Strategic Update and Outlook for 2023. We will continue to be as transparent as possible about the new funding strategy as it rolls out. The Foundation will communicate as often, and as frequently, as possible. We encourage the community to continue providing meaningful feedback so we can iterate more quickly as we unite to build the NEAR Ecosystem together.


Open Call for NEAR Accelerator Partners
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 8, 2023
The NEAR blockchain is an open-source, decentralized blockchain protocol designed to be scalable, developer-friendly, and able to support a wide range of decentralized applications (dApps) and smart contracts.

The NEAR Foundation is the non-profit organization behind the NEAR blockchain, responsible for the development and maintenance of the NEAR Protocol and its associated ecosystem. Since the inception of the grants program, the NEAR Foundation has committed over $90m capital and the ecosystem grew from 0 to over 1,000 teams. 

One of the central lessons learned during this time is that founding teams need a host of contributors in order to be successful, including mentors/advisors, subject matter specific resources (e.g. legal playbooks, go-to-market strategies, tokenomics, etc), and access to investment opportunities. 

NEAR Foundation is looking to partner with existing acceleration programs in two ways:

Leverage the partner’s excellence and experience in running cohort-based acceleration programs. 
Beta test and help build a digital product being developed by NEAR that connects projects with contributors (including investors).
If you’re interested in becoming a NEAR Accelerator Partner, please read the requirements below. Proposals must be submitted via Google Form by February 17th.
*If you’re a startup looking for accelerator programs, NEAR Foundation is looking to engage with the best partners out there. Register your interest in the NEAR Accelerator here.

NEAR Foundation’s Goal 
Attract the most talented early stage teams to NEAR and provide them with the right tools, knowledge, and network to successfully raise external funds at a later stage. 

Success metrics
Quality of founder experience, as measured by an NPS score.
Ability for founders that have graduated from the accelerator(s) to raise their first or next round within a year of graduation.
Requirements
NEAR Foundation will be assessing proposals based on the two dimensions explained below: the Accelerator Partner Requirements and the Digital Product Beta Participation Requirements. 

Accelerator Partner Requirements
Strong sourcing capabilities in the areas of our investment thesis
NEAR Foundation believes in selecting teams building projects with real world, utility-based use cases that tap into the existing pools of Web2 users and companies. They must leverage Web3 in novel ways to solve real world problems better than Web2 tech is able to. The Foundation will not be focused on specific verticals, and instead be relatively opportunistic in terms of use case (at least in the first few cohorts). DeFi and Gaming verticals would be excluded from the accelerator purview.

The Foundation is focused on pre-seed and seed stage teams. We expect that teams selected for a NEAR sponsored cohort will build on NEAR and leverage NEAR Discovery. More information on NEAR Discovery here. 

In your response, please detail the following:

Your investment thesis and the degree to which it does / does not align with our focus.
Your approach to sourcing and acquiring top calibur teams. 
Your approach to vetting teams to ensure quality.
Web3 accelerator program scope 
As NEAR Foundation aims to attract the best teams, we want our accelerator partner to provide a top class experience and focus on the main challenges that Web3 startups face nowadays, including but not limited to: go-to-market, token economy and launches, fundraising and pitching, marketing and comms, governance, legal, etc. This will be supplemented by the support of experts within the NEAR ecosystem. 

In your response, please detail the following:

Program scope and sequence (learning opportunities and delivery method)
Scope of advisory and mentorship services
Length of program
Post program services
Number of cohorts and anticipated cohort size (number of projects)
Geographic focus areas 
Delivery mode (e.g. in person, on-line, hybrid)
Track record of success
NEAR Foundation seeks accelerator partners that have a strong track record of success. In your response, please detail the following:

Date when your program started
Number of projects and cohorts that have graduated from your program
Projects names per cohort
Feedback from teams that have gone through your program
Percent of teams that have been able to close their first or next round after graduating from your program 
Average and median amount that graduating teams have been able to raise post-graduation
Attractive deal terms
One of the most important factors in attracting high quality founders to the accelerator will be the quality of the investment terms. 

In your response, please detail the following:

Your approach to investment (including standard allocation if applicable, percent of equity and tokens your team takes, approach to follow-on investment etc.). 
Cost & investment
NEAR Foundation is open to various proposals in terms of costs and investments. Where we land will largely depend on the proposed value to NEAR and its ecosystem. 

For NEAR specific cohorts, the Foundation’s goal is for both NEAR and the Accelerator Partner to share operational cost and investment opportunity. 

For chain agnostic cohorts, we would be willing to provide direct technical and non-technical support from the NEAR Foundation Accelerator’s team for startups who choose NEAR as their Layer 1. 

In your response, please detail the following:

Proposed approach (NEAR cohort vs chain agnostic or both)
Proposed budget in support of the proposal: this budget should provide details about what the money will be used for (e.g. administrative costs, costs to host events, etc) i.e. P&L
If applicable, propose the role the NEAR Foundation could play in terms of investment (e.g. LP / co-investor etc.)
Potential startup date of the program and/or adherence to ongoing program
Broader NEAR ecosystem support
NEAR Foundation would like its ecosystem of startups to leverage the partner capabilities even though they are not actively participating in the accelerator (e.g., share ready-made class material, leverage investor network, connections to enterprise, etc.).

In your response, please detail the following:

Your perspective on providing these resources and supports to NEAR ecosystem projects that do not go through the accelerator program
Additional costs that might be associated with providing these services (if applicable)
Your proposal for how your services scale 
Digital Product Beta Participation Requirements
In 2023, Pagoda, NEAR Foundation and other key ecosystem participants are increasing the integration and seamless experience for developers and end users into one common operating system that will leverage fast onboarding experience, user profiles, new chat/ social capabilities, and more. As part of this platform, the Foundation is building a founder-focused application that will be the place for both NEAR-native and non-NEAR-native projects to be discovered, find contributors and investors, and grow towards their goals. We would like to invite accelerator partners in as beta customers and builders for this application.

If your organization is both an investment team and an accelerator:

Agreement to use the digital product as a project “contributor,” meaning:
One or more resources from your team will actively engage with projects on the platform, providing advisory services
Your team will leverage the platform to identify projects for investment 
You will encourage founding teams from your portfolio to use to the platform (they do not need to be building on NEAR) 
You will actively work to improve your user experience by providing feedback to the project team and/or contributing directly to the development effort
If your organization is solely an accelerator:

Agreement to use the digital product as a project “contributor,” meaning:
One or more resources from your team will actively engage with projects on the platform, providing advisory services
You will encourage founding teams from your portfolio to use to the platform (they do not need to be building on NEAR) 
You will actively work to improve your user experience by providing feedback to the project team and/or contributing directly to the development effort
In your response, please detail the following:

 Your interest and commitment in participation
Your proposal for how you would engage in the beta (e.g., you will dedicate three part-time resources for the beta; you will contribute part-time engineering resource to contribute to building with us) 
NEAR Foundation Commitments
NEAR Foundation is committed to complement the partner’s current programs with ecosystem support (technical and non-technical). 

Selection criteria and timelines
NEAR Foundation will be assessing proposals based on the previously mentioned requirements. Acceleration partners are expected to submit their proposals by February 17, 2023 via Google Form. The NEAR Foundation review team will be conducting interviews with selected candidates between February 13-24. The review team will shortlist the partners between February 27-28 and will communicate further with the selected parties. Final approval will be provided by the NEAR Foundation Counsel. 

Legal Disclosure: 

Participation in our accelerator partners program is subject to the following terms and conditions: (1) Confidentiality: Participants will be required to keep all information and materials shared by the program confidential, unless otherwise agreed to in writing or as required by law. (2) Intellectual Property: All intellectual property created or developed by a participant during the program will remain the property of the participant, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the participant. (3) Disclaimer of Liability: The program will not be liable for any damages arising out of or in connection with the program or the participation of any participant. (4) Governing Law: These terms and conditions will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Switzerland. By participating in the program, participants agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.
Sweat Economy Launches in the USA, Opening the Door to Millions of New Web3 Users
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 17, 2023
Sweat Economy, creators of $SWEAT and leaders in helping the world become more active, is launching in the United States for the first time. 

The decision to expand into the new territory was supported by a historic on chain vote by the Sweat Economy Community, and saw more than 380,000 community members take part in the decision. 

The announcement will pave the way for millions of users in the United States, the Bahamas, Barbados, Botswana, Ghana, Jamaica, Pakistan, Zimbabwe, and Uganda, to be able to tokenize their physical activity within the Sweat Economy ecosystem — adding momentum to the burgeoning global movement economy. 

Sweat Economy is a Web3 evolution of the Web2 health & fitness app — Sweatcoin — which now has more than 145 million registered users worldwide. It started in September 2022 when the project launched its crypto token $SWEAT alongside the Sweat Wallet mobile app. $SWEAT is effectively a tokenized form of physical activity; a new asset class that did not exist up to this moment, while Sweat Wallet is the mobile application that gives you the best experience of collecting and managing your $SWEAT. To start minting $SWEAT, users need to install the Sweatcoin app,  opt-in to “Walk into Crypto” and then install the Sweat Wallet app. 

This means that instead of earning centralized sweatcoin points, users earn $SWEAT — a crypto token that represents the value of their physical activity and is traded on 20+ exchanges worldwide. Accrued $SWEAT can then be used in various ways, including deposited into “Growth Jars” to be saved and multiplied, and unlock exclusive rewards within the ecosystem. Users can also compete in the free-to-play Sweat Hero NFT game to win additional $SWEAT, while also having the option to purchase $SWEAT in-app using the MoonPay fiat on-ramp 

“It’s incredible to see the progress of Sweat Economy as it enables us to achieve our mission to bring millions into the open web,” says Chris Donovan, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. 

“As an industry leader in tokenizing physical activity, Sweat Economy’s launch into the U.S. represents a major milestone not just for the project, but for the entire NEAR ecosystem. It also demonstrates the incredible scalability of the NEAR Protocol, which has been able to seamlessly support one of the largest consumer apps in Web3 operating at a significant scale.”

Since $SWEAT launched on NEAR Protocol, it has become one of the largest Dapps in the Web3 ecosystem, with more than 20 million wallets and more than 100,000 transactions per day. The Sweat Wallet app quickly became the number one most downloaded Finance app in more than 50 countries. This follows Sweat’s success as the fastest IDO ever to sell out on the DAO Maker platform. It has become one of the largest Web3 on-ramps in history. 

“We are thrilled to finally bring the Sweat Economy experience to the United States and 8 other markets. Our community was making it loud and clear that they wanted and needed us there and we are happy that we finally can deliver for them,” says Oleg Fomenko, co-founder of Sweat Economy.

“We are excited that residents of these countries will also be able to literally WALK INTO CRYPTO! Our global community of users has been instrumental in supporting this launch and we are thankful for their participation in the biggest ever governance vote that allocated nearly 700 million $SWEAT to the new community members in consideration for their verified physical activity. By expanding into these markets, we aim to inspire a new wave of physical activity and incentivize individuals to lead healthier lives, while paving the way for the next billion users looking to participate in the movement economy.”

Sweat Economy’s announcement is another milestone as the NEAR community works hard to onboard one billion users to Web3. By choosing to build on NEAR, Sweat Economy will be well placed to leverage the protocol’s incredibly secure and infinitely scalable sharding infrastructure — unlocking the opportunity to onboard millions of potential users into a burgeoning Web3 movement economy.

If you have yet to join the economy of movement, head to your mobile app store and download the Sweatcoin and Sweat Wallet apps today and see how millions of people are earning crypto just by being physically active. Join NEAR and Sweat Economy in building a healthier collective future!
NEAR Foundation Partners With Elliptic To Enhance On-Chain Security
COMMUNITY
February 22, 2022
The NEAR Foundation is delighted to announce it is partnering with Elliptic to help enhance security and on chain forensics. 

The partnership means both the NEAR blockchain and its native asset $NEAR will have access to Elliptic’s class-leading blockchain analytics and financial crime monitoring services.

“NEAR’s mission is to help onboard billions of users into Web3,” says NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament. 

“We can’t do that unless we can create a safe and secure environment for people to explore this new world. Partnering with projects like Elliptic helps us realise this goal faster.”

The agreement will provide users of NEAR with full visibility of the NEAR blockchain across Elliptic’s full suite of products and services. This will initially include screening of crypto wallets and transactions on the NEAR blockchain through Elliptic’s Lens and Navigator products, with plans to incorporate Virtual Asset Providers (VASPs verification) and crime investigation capabilities through Elliptics Discovery and Forensics. 

“Blockchain technologies are embedded in the financial mainstream and giving businesses the tools to use them transparently is critical to their safe and secure adoption,” said Elliptic CPO John Connolly. 

“Working with NEAR Foundation is another important step towards providing the deepest analytical and technical insight across a broad range of blockchain technologies to ensure businesses can identify trusted partners and work with cryptoassets with confidence.”

Elliptic provides compliance solutions and services for exchanges, protocols and Web3 businesses. Its analytics scan more than 500 cryptoassets and 20 billion+ data points to provide accurate, actionable insights that businesses rely on to mitigate risk and be compliant.


Women in Web3 Changemakers: Bridget Greenwood
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 24, 2023
“Web3 is a marathon and a sprint at the same time,” says Bridget Greenwood, Founder of The Bigger Pie, a project helping to support women in blockchain and emerging tech.

Greenwood is one of the 10 finalists of the 2023 Women in Web3 Changemakers List, an annual competition designed to champion women pushing boundaries in the space. Greenwood, along with nine other outstanding candidates, is showing the industry the change women are bringing about during the advent of the Open Web. 

When Greenwood isn’t helping women get funding, connecting them with event organisers and experts in the field at The Bigger Pie, she is also the founder of the 200Bn Club. The 200Bn club is an investment fund and accelerator program for under-represented founders, giving them pitch coaching, mock pitches, and access to over 200 VC Partners to help them successfully gain term sheets.

“There’s a lot of research that shows that women imagine solutions for a real-world problem that is much more sustainable in terms of its impact,” says Greenwood. 

“I think we’ve not seen enough of that in this space, and it’s what led me to start up The Bigger Pie.” But Greenwood’s journey into carving out space for more women in Web3 was anything but straightforward. 

Watch an extended NEAR Foundation video interview with Bridget Greenwood below.

A chance encounter 
Before crypto, Greenwood worked as an independent financial advisor in Norfolk, a rural part of England. But found the lack of opportunity and low wages at odds with her desire to be present for her son. 

“I lived in a place where there wasn’t a lot of opportunity on the doorstep. So how can I earn money whilst also being present for my child?”

So Greenwood turned down offers from local businesses, and joined a financial software company specialising in helping leaders navigate the online world of social media. Shortly afterwards, she “fell down the Bitcoin rabbit hole”. 

It was a conversation with a friend that introduced her to the idea of decentralized ledger technology. “I loved the idea of having a blockchain that is decentralised, with the ability to change, and choose where we wanted to transfer value and who was included,” says Greenwood.

After that, she joined the BCB Group, which provided cryptocurrency brokerage services for institutional clients. While working at the company she saw firsthand how many brilliant, talented women were already working in the space. 

“I thought to myself, they don’t need any help. Right? But I thought I better ask. And I said as women in this industry, do you feel as though it’d be good to have support as a woman? Actually, the answer was yes.”

Six years later, and that impromptu question has grown into a community of hundreds of women in Web3 space supporting each other. But, says Greenwood there’s still a long way to go for true equality. 

“When you leave out half of the population, you’re leaving out half of those experiences, and the problems they face.” For Greenwood, she is on a mission to help more women find their footing in Web3. 

“This is a great space to come in, because everyone’s making shit up as they go along,” she says. “Don’t worry about the fact that you’re coming in and you don’t know everything because nobody does, it moves too quickly.”

Instead, says Greenwood, reach out to female founders and entrepreneurs you admire and explain why you’d like to be here. “Feel free to reach out to me and I will invite you into the Bigger Pie and share with you all of the other communities that you have. Don’t be overwhelmed, do speak up. And without you, we are not going to build a future that we want to see.”
NEAR Protocol BigQuery Public Dataset
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 22, 2023
NEAR Protocol is a user-friendly, carbon-neutral blockchain, built from the ground up to be performant, secure, and unparalleled scalability. In technical terms, NEAR is a layer one, sharded, proof-of-stake blockchain built with usability in mind. In simple terms, NEAR is a blockchain for everyone.

Today, we are excited to announce the NEAR BigQuery Public Dataset for anyone who wants to query blockchain data in an easy and cost-effective way.

Why BigQuery Public Dataset
Until now, a user’s data query needs were fulfilled by indexers. Those indexers were either supplied by NEAR Protocol or custom made. To build custom indexers required JSON files from the NEAR Lake storage layer to be transformed and loaded into a target database engine like PostgreSQL, and only then could a user execute queries against it. This approach is complex, time-consuming, and resource-draining. It requires constant monitoring to ensure databases have the most up-to-date information.
NEAR BigQuery Public Dataset changes this. It provides near real-time blockchain data that can be easily queried with SQL.

What we did
We built the NEAR LakeHouse in Databricks. The data is loaded into raw bronze files using Databricks Autoloader, and transformed with Databricks Delta Live Tables into cleaned and enriched silver tables following the Databricks Medallion Architecture. The silver tables are then copied into the GCP BigQuery Public Dataset ready for consumption.

The solution design
The code is open-source and can be found in our GitHub repository: near/near-public-lakehouse

To learn more about how to get started and the data available, please check our documentation:

https://docs.near.org/bos/queryapi/big-query

Benefits
NEAR instant insights: Historic on-chain data queried at scale.
Cost-effective: Eliminate the need to store and process bulk NEAR Protocol data; query as little or as much data as preferred.
Easy to use: No prior experience with blockchain technology is required; bring a general knowledge of SQL to unlock insights.
Conclusion
NEAR BigQuery Public Dataset  is now available for anyone wanting to harness blockchain data for their own needs. BigQuery can help not only developers, but broader audiences including: 

Users: Create queries to track NEAR Protocol assets, monitor transactions, or analyze on-chain events at a massive scale.
Researchers: Use indexed data for data science tasks, including on-chain activities, identifying trends, or feeding AI/ML pipelines for predictive analysis.
Startups: Use NEAR Protocol’s indexed data for deep insights on user engagement, smart contract utilization, or insights across tokens and NFT adoption.
Acknowledgments
We are grateful for the following contributors who helped us to deliver the NEAR BigQuery Public Dataset. 

NEAR Foundation/Pagoda: Eduardo Ohe, Pavel Kudinov, Jo Yang, Abhishek Anirudhan, Yad Konrad, Olga Telezhnaya, Bohdan Khorolets,Morgan McCauley, Ernesto Cejas Padilla, Rob Tsai, Damián Parrino. 
Google Cloud: Colleen Pimentel, Rodrigo de Freitas Vale, and Devan Mitchem.
Databricks: Clayton Martin, and Alice Zhang.
A Reminder to Migrate from NEAR Wallet
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 12, 2023
In July, NEAR Foundation published “Embracing Decentralization: What’s Next for the NEAR Wallet”, a detailed exploration of how Pagoda is migrating NEAR Wallet from being a browser wallet into a wallet hub. As we noted at the time, this wallet evolution illustrates the substantial growth of the NEAR ecosystem, which now offers a wide range of cross-chain wallets and native wallets. 

As part of this wallet evolution, the NEAR Wallet is set to be discontinued on January 1, 2024.

You can migrate to your wallet of choice using the automatic Wallet Transfer Wizard, integrated into the current NEAR Wallet, or manually by using your recovery phrase. Whichever path you choose, understand that your account and its assets are safe.

Do not worry if you have not transferred your accounts by January 1, 2024 — the Transfer Wizard will still be available after the wallet functionality sunsets. And again, rest assured that your assets will remain secure until you import them to a new wallet.

For more details on using  the Transfer Wizard, visit the Migrating from NEAR Wallet page. 
NEAR Community Update: February 8, 2019
COMMUNITY
February 8, 2019
The NEAR DevNet is out. In this case, the blockchain is currently running on a single node but you can use the NEAR Studio online IDE to one-click deploy a sample Guest Book contract or you can try out a lightweight tutorial for building a basic game.

We’ve kept the styling and functionality very minimal so far but there are a few key things to notice:

You can use one click — the “Run” button — to deploy the contract immediately to the blockchain and serve it in the browser. Sharing the full URL from app.near.ai allows other people to interact with it collaboratively.
The contract development language is TypeScript so anyone who knows JavaScript or even C#/Java will feel comfortable with it immediately.
Tests are baked right into the templates and the “Test” button will automatically run the Jasmine test suite for you in the browser.
There is a basic NEAR-hosted wallet in place as well.
It doesn’t look like much visually but this is the tip of the iceberg and functionality will increase quickly over the upcoming weeks. We are running tons of workshops with developers to build community and iterate alongside our users.

#movefastandshipthings

This is a test caption for the image.
Community and Events
We’re kicked into high gear for upcoming events because we’re ready to allow our community to get their hands on real code. Those events which have been finalized are listed below but we have tours through Colorado, Europe and Asia on the horizon plus plenty of good old-fashioned Bay Area workshopping.

If you want to host a local NEAR meetup in your city or see if we can meet with yours, reach out to [email protected].

Recent Highlights
[SF] Blockchain 101 Onramp: The Design of Blockchain-Based Apps (DApps) (Video, Slides)
[Online]: Next Generation Blockchains: Usability, Scalability and Real Business Models (Erik Trautman)
Upcoming Events
[Denver] Feb 12: Sneak Peak Workshop: NEAR DevNet with ETH Denver
[SF] Feb 13: Blockchain 101 Onramp: DApp Development Basics
[Denver] Feb 15–17: Judging the Eth Denver hackathon (Illia Polosukhin)
[SF] Feb 19: NEAR Protocol DevNet Test Drive with ABC Blockchain
[Boston] Feb 22: Harvard Business School 2019 Crypto Club (with Alex Skidanov)
[SF] Feb 26: Giving power back to developers: Preview of a new computing platform (@Github)
[Oakland] Feb 27: Near Protocol — DevNet Workshop (@Oakland Developers)
[SF] Feb 27: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Best Practices for Developing DApps
[Shanghai] Feb 28: NEAR Workshop (link unavailable yet)
[Paris] March 8: Events around Eth Paris
[Austin] March 14–16: Events around SXSW
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

Writing and Content
Alex Skidanov gave a talk on sharding at Graph Day which discussed tradeoffs in the space and I spoke about usability, scalability and real business models for next generation blockchains at Decentralized Summit.

Engineering Highlights
As mentioned above, we have finalized the first version of DevNet and are now on-boarding developers to try it out. Check it out at https://studio.nearprotocol.com/, where you can use a pre-configured template to deploy a smart contract in about 4 seconds.

We are beginning to build out more tutorials to show off what NEAR can do and how easy it is to built apps on top of. Check out the docs or catch up with Illia and Alex at ETH Denver or on Discord to learn more.

Development changes included:

Built a hosted wallet with OAuth flow
Switched to use protobufs for encoding transactions across nearcore and nearlib.
Nearlib: updated docs, syntactic sugar for contract method calls, easy way to wait for transaction completion using promises, handle failed transactions and return readable errors through promises, get logs from node into JS console
Refactored runtime and transaction/receipt processing to allow for validation of the receipt source
Integrated BLS signature aggregation and verification for block production
Finalized rewriting network protocol and started to build integration testing for TestNet
Finally, we’re building on WASM so wanted to show our support for the developers of the project. We hope to get even more involved with great infrastructure projects in the future.

How You Can Get Involved
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented (and humble?) teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings.

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.
NEAR in June: Mila Kunis’ Armored Kingdom, Consensus, Multichain, and More
COMMUNITY
July 2, 2022
Summer is here. And while the year’s longest day has passed, the best days are ahead for the NEAR ecosystem and community. An exciting new roadmap for the next 12 months has been announced, along with several other enhancements to the Protocol and its security. 

June was marked by fantastic connection, innovation, and progress in the world of NEAR, from a crypto-conference in the Lone Star state to high-stakes sailing on Lake Michigan and an exciting new project in entertainment that pushes the boundaries of Web3 at the intersection of art and technology.

Read on to learn everything you need to know about NEAR in June. 

Armored Kingdom launch
June brought the significant announcement of Armored Kingdom, a new multi-platform, global entertainment universe founded by actress Mila Kunis and superhero creator Sharad Devarajan. Armored Kingdom is focused on changing the landscape of digital comics, animation, and film, as well as developing Web3 trading card games.

Joining Kunis and Devarajan are founders Lindsey McInerney and Lisa Sterbakov, along with creator Hugh Sterbakov and writer/game designer Brian Turner. Armored Kingdom’s vision is an immersive blend of a media franchise with science fiction and fantasy worldbuilding, chronicling the medieval dynasties of Armoria, a world named after an impressive yet elusive metal, Armorite. The multi-platform approach will serve as a venue for fans to connect with each other and the creators.


When deciding where to launch this platform, Armored Kingdom’s founders knew that NEAR’s fast, carbon-neutral, and infinitely scalable protocol checked all the boxes. The launch of Armored Kingdom included a limited edition free NFT comic mint, which was available for only 7 days. It preceded Armored Kingdom’s forthcoming first official collection—a five-issue series of digital and physical comics.

Following its launch announcement through an exclusive with Deadline Hollywood, the entertainment and Web3 communities have been buzzing about this new venture. News organizations around the globe, including Adweek, IGN, and Yahoo, have reported on this unique intersection between entertainment, digital media, and Web3 technology, reaching millions of readers and exposing potential new members to the greater NEAR community.

NEAR @ Consensus
From June 9-12th, the NEAR community converged on Austin, Texas for the Consensus conference, a week of conversations around blockchain, crypto, Web3, and the metaverse. A “Block 5” sponsor of the event, NEAR Foundation’s presence permeated the halls of the Austin Convention Center with educational developer workshops, panel discussions, and speeches from members of the ecosystem and Foundation. 

CEO Marieke Flemant gave opening remarks on the Foundations Stage, emphasizing the NEAR Foundation’s continued commitment to sustainability and ecosystem growth. NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin then presented NEAR Protocol’s roadmap over the next 12 months.

An exciting announcement surrounded NEAR rolling out a JavaScript software development kit (SDK) for writing smart contracts. A milestone on the path to mass developer adoption, seven million JS developers can now quickly onboard to Web3 by using a language familiar to them. The palpable excitement was only enhanced by the presence of Brendan Eich, creator of JavaScript and CEO of Brave Software, who was there for the “Test Drive JavaScript for NEAR” session led by Josh Ford and Ben Kurrek from NEAR’s Developer Relations Team. 

Consensus was also the venue for two major NEAR announcements in browser integration and gaming. First, Brave and NEAR announced a collaboration to integrate Aurora, an Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) on the NEAR Protocol, into Brave Wallet. Not only will Brave Wallet’s multi-chain functionality increase, but the Basic Attention Token (BAT) will experience an expanded utility. 

The other big event was Mila Kunis’s announcement ofArmored Kingdom’s launch on NEAR. 

NEAR’s Multichain integration
In a move that will allow thousands of tokens to effortlessly interact with NEAR’s ecosystem, the NEAR Foundation announced in June that the NEAR blockchain will be integrated into the Multichain ecosystem.

A cross-chain router protocol, Multichain is steadily working towards being the “ultimate router for Web3,” allowing users to freely swap between any two chains. As such, fees are reduced, and moving between chains is elegant with optimal simplicity. 

Since its beginnings in 2020, Multichain (formerly Anyswap) has a sustained daily volume of over $100 million across 52 blockchains and nearly 2,000 different currencies. In addition to its bridge and router services, Multichain offers anyCall cross-chain contract calls—all backed by the security of Multichain’s MPC network. 

The NEAR blockchain joins a well-established list of supported chains, including Aurora, Avalanche, BNB Chain, Bitcoin, Celo, Ethereum, Oasis, Polygon, and more. Multichain integration extends interoperability to an already expansive network. Ultimately, this will support NEAR’s commitment to ecosystem growth by giving a more superb choice to users and significant freedom to developers.

NEAR launches Smart Contract Audit Program 
In June, NEAR Foundation announced a big step in expanding smart contract audits with its Smart Contract Audit program. Now live, the program also enhances the ecosystem’s overall security.

The program arose from an increase in demand for smart contract audits, and the number of auditors NEAR Foundation needed on retainer. The program will bring a new level of ease and simplicity when selecting the most experienced and skilled auditors. 

Two tentpole features comprise the Smart Contract Audit Program: forms that serve as a pathway for auditor ingest and audit requests. The Auditor Ingest form is as a means for interested smart contract auditors to demonstrate their talents and skills. Following their submission, a rigorous review takes place, ultimately allowing the Foundation to have a high level of detail and better understanding as candidates are selected for onboarding.

Interested projects can now complete a Smart Contract Audit Request form, which enters the project into an audit queue upon submission. Thanks to the diverse and well-qualified talent pool that NEAR Foundation has assembled through the ingest screening process, projects with discrete plans for funding their audits will be completed by previously vetted smart contract auditing firms. 

An essential step in enhancing the overall security of the ecosystem, this program will proliferate the availability of high-caliber audits and transform the role of existing security companies that serve the greater NEAR community. 

SailGP and NEAR’s first sailing event in Chicago
In March, NEAR announced a groundbreaking partnership with SailGP, the premier global sailing league. As a part of this multi-year partnership, the sale of a new team to a DAO launched on NEAR will be explored. This DAO a milestone as the first-of-its-kind in professional sports community engagement.

The DAO also represents a significant overlap between Web3 and professional sports. Users and fans have been provided a new venue to interact, engage and connect with their favorite teams, athletes, and more. 

In June, the United States Sail Grand Prix, held in Chicago at Navy Pier, marked the first event SailGP and NEAR participated in as a part of this new relationship. The event was notable for NEAR’s logo prominently displayed on boats and signage, but also for SailGP’s first NFT collection on NEAR. 


At the United States Sail Grand Prix, NEAR and SailGP hosted an exclusive exhibition of NFTs curated by imnotArt, Chicago’s first physical NFT gallery. NFTs from all four SailGP collections were on display, giving fans a chance to purchase them for the first time. 
Introducing Wallet Selector: A New Tool for the NEAR Ecosystem
COMMUNITY
April 7, 2022
Web3 users looking for an easy way to interact with the NEAR blockchain using their wallet of choice now have a slew of options. Wallet Selector, a new easy-to-navigate pop-up allows users to select their preferred wallet to easily interact with the NEAR protocol. 

Launched in March 2022 by the NEAR Foundation, this simple modal will appear whenever users are given the option to “Connect Wallet” to the NEAR blockchain. 

Wallet Selector provides developers and builders with new options to connect their projects to NEAR, and in future, will allow mobile apps to connect to the NEAR blockchain seamlessly in just a few clicks. 

NEAR Wallet Selector
Unlocking the wallet ecosystem 
At launch, Wallet Selector will feature three supported wallets: 

NEAR Wallet – a simple, easy to use web-based wallet. 
Sender Wallet – a browser extension available Chrome, Brave, and other browsers.
Ledger Wallet – the secure hardware wallet that allows users to store their wallet in a secure place. 
Meteor Wallet – the simple and secure wallet to manage your crypto, access DeFi, and explore NEAR.
Thanks to NEAR’s open and inclusive approach, other wallet developers will be able to contribute to the NEAR ecosystem.

Developers looking to add their wallets, there is documentation and instructions on the NEAR Github repository.


NEAR at Davos for World Economic Forum
COMMUNITY
May 20, 2022
Each year, decision makers and stakeholders from across the globe and many different fields descend on Davos, Switzerland. They come for the World Economic Forum, to discuss the most pressing issues facing the global economy. For WEF 2022, topics will include the pandemic recovery, inflation, climate change, new technologies, and more. 

This year, NEAR community members and partners will be attending WEF. Why will NEAR be there? Great question!

NEAR is heading to WEF to lend its voice and expertise on matters related to blockchain, crypto, and Web3. NEAR and its partners also have some other cool plans for WEF. And given that WEF is such an influential gathering, with much media coverage, the NEAR ecosystem will gain global exposure both during and after the forum. 

So, let’s take a look at what you can expect from NEAR at Davos. 

NEAR, CNBC and Filecoin partner for The Sanctuary
NEAR is a featured Partner of The Sanctuary, a space hosted by CNBC and Filecoin Foundation. Community members will be joining a list of featured Partners that includes the New York Times, Financial Times, CoinDesk, Global Blockchain Business Council, and others. 

The Sanctuary sessions will focus on: Sustainability, Diversity Equity & Inclusion (DEI), and Cryptocurrency & Web3. NEAR and other Sanctuary partners will discuss a number of topics facing Web3, including regulatory frameworks, decentralized app ecosystems, and ensuring the Open Web is a welcome space for anyone and everyone. 

NEAR Wallet demo and brunch
The NEAR community will also host a brunch at The Sanctuary on May 25th from 8:30-10:30am. During coffee and brunch, NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament will introduce Davos attendees to the NEAR ecosystem.

NEAR Co-founder Illia Polosukhin will then lead a session on how to open a wallet on NEAR. He will also explain how to make a transaction and more NEAR wallet functionality. 

The Davos Challenge: Walk for Ukraine
Sweatcoin, pioneers of the “movement economy”—in which users can earn by moving—is joining NEAR at Davos. They will be featured in the official WEF Davos app, and will be hosting “The Davos Challenge: Walk for Ukraine”.  

Sweatcoin is encouraging Davos delegates, plus millions of other Sweatcoin users, to track their steps and donate the sweatcoins generated to the Free Ukraine Foundation. Users simply download the free Sweatcoin app (iOs and Android) and start walking. Delegate and user steps will be counted and start to generate sweatcoins, which they can then donate to the campaign at the end of the week.

“There’s typically a lot of walking involved at an event like Davos,” says Sweatcoin’s Chief Marketing Officer, Jessica Butcher. “So, why not put the sweatcoins to good use and donate them to a great cause!”

“As the Russian invasion in Ukraine continues, millions of Ukrainians are facing a humanitarian crisis and are in need of urgent assistance,” she adds. “Together, we can support communities impacted by this violence against the Ukrainian people.”

The Davos Challenge: Walk for Ukraine will take place on WEF’s opening night, Sunday, May 22nd. For more details on the challenge, head over to Sweatcoin.

Tune into CNBC for NEAR @ Davos 
Few people get to attend the Davos forum in person. WEF attendance is limited to 2,000 of the world’s most influential figures across business, politics, technology, social impact, and more.

However, the NEAR community and other Web3 developers and entrepreneurs can check out the schedule and stay tuned for the recap.


Music and Blockchain: Building a Record Label on the Blockchain
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 14, 2022
Blockchain technology and Web3 are on their way to transform everything—particularly the world of art and music. Right now, the music industry is very much centralized, with Web2 streaming platforms (despite being extremely popular) often not getting the best deal for artists. 

Blockchain solutions are working to solve this. Decentralized streaming platforms, like the NEAR-based Amplify.Art and Tamago, will give musicians more artistic control (and revenue). Music NFTs, already popular on NEAR, are also helping artists create a closer connection with fans. 

Even the way live events sell tickets is finding its place in web3. Mintbase, an NFT minting platform built on NEAR, is experimenting with smart ticketing—selling tickets as NFTs to prove authenticity and prevent fraud. 

One of the next logical steps is reenvisioning the record label. By decentralizing music, the hope is that a more fair and less byzantine system can take root, allowing musicians and other industry professionals flourish on more equal terms. 

This future is already unfolding on the NEAR ecosystem, where musicians can learn to build on a super fast, low cost, and secure blockchain. 

Reimagining record labels on NEAR 
DAOrecords, a label built on NEAR, is a good example of the creative reimagining of a blockchain record label. Brainchild of hip hop musician, producer, and Web3 proponent, Vandal, DAOrecords is using blockchain to give artists their fair share through NFTs, automated royalty-splitting, and live events in metaverse venues. 

DAOrecords will launch their alpha product in May through SoundSplash, a Metaverse event series. Until then, the label is helping artists navigate Music NFTs and Web3. And it’s not just DAO Records that is helping to create a hub for music NFTs on the NEAR ecosystem. 

Last year, Ed Young (co-founder of The Source) and the Universal Hip Hop Museum (UHHM) partnered for NFT.hiphop, a collection of art/music NFTs featuring hip hop artists. The collection featured illustrations of the most famous hip hop artists, created by André LeRoy Davis. Mintbase also got into the tokenized music game with its release of Deadmau5 and Portugal. The Man’s collaborative NFT single “this is fine” in December 2021. 

While NFT.hiphop and the Mintbase-Deadmau5 projects are creative experiments, DAOrecords is using NFTs to revolutionize the record label. Music NFTs are simply smart contracts that give fans ownership of songs, artwork, merchandise, and other unique assets. With original NFT collections, the idea is to create more personal connections between artists and fans.

Making royalty splits transparent
Vandal formed DAOrecords, in large part, to improve the distribution of music sales and royalties to artists. Like many music industry professionals, Vandal recognized the longstanding  issue of artist royalties, which streaming platforms only amplified. After record labels, managers, and others take their cut of music sales and streams, musicians are left with meager income.. This model means smaller independent artists often struggle to hit billions of streams to earn a liveable wage. 

“As an independent artist it can be really hard to compete in an industry that relies so heavily on streams,” Vandal says. He adds that we need to re-examine our relationship to streaming: artists are unable to know their audiences and have little connection with them. He says NFTs can be the new collectibles, replacing CDs or vinyl records, and bringing musicians and fans closer together. 


Vandal adds that “blockchain can provide a layer of transparency and trust,” using music NFTs as an example. Everything is baked into smart contracts, and artists know exactly where funds will be allocated. Joining a music DAO can help artists participate in decentralized governance, request funds, and ultimately see every activity recorded on the blockchain. 

DAOrecords is also heavily involved in the metaverse—the next, more interactive generation of the Internet. The label’s affiliated artists have been performing at metaverse events since April 2020, most recently at the Metaverse Music Festival in Decentraland last October. 

Why build on NEAR’s blockchain? 
NEAR’s super fast transactions and ease-of-use are obvious attractions to Web3 labels. But Vandal also says that creating a label on NEAR was perfect because of the variety of people using it. 

“There is a sense of community and family with everyone doing different things,” he says. “It [has] always felt very much like a family.”

Beyond the ecosystems’ diversity and sense of community, Vandal chose NEAR after experimenting with Ethereum to mint music NFTs. The network worked well but he was put off by the high gas costs. NEAR’s fast and cheap platform was a better alternative. Vandal was also drawn to the tools available on NEAR, especially automated splits for contracts.

For song and album royalty splits, NEAR’s speed, efficiency, and cost is a natural draw for music industry folks. Jordan Gray, an electronic musician and co-founder of Astro DAO, says quick automated royalty payments are being transformed on NEAR.

In the music industry’s current royalty model, artists can wait months to get their cut from a Web2 streaming platform. NEAR’s platform can immediately split royalties for up to 40 people, as small as a fraction of a cent. This is something bigger blockchains, like Ethereum, can’t do because of cost. 

“I don’t think anybody has taken advantage of it yet, or found the perfect formula,” says Gray. “But I think that is a key component to taking a part of the music industry and automating it—making them more efficient so artists can get more money for the music they create.”

Eventually, even listeners will receive rewards, it is hoped. By curating playlists of their favorite artists, Vandal says they will receive quick payments from artists depending on how well their selections do online.

Rethinking record contracts
For well over 100 years, music artists have signed contracts with record labels. This is set to change on Web3 platforms like NEAR. 

Vandal says DAOrecords and others are moving away from the typical model of signing artists with paper contracts. Musicians will be in full control of their work with non-exclusive, non-IP (intellectual property) systems where they can release their own music, or even set up their own platforms, with the label. 

These platforms will resemble a WordPress template on which artists will have their own “landing pages,” where fans can fully interact with them. Eventually, artists will create their own labels using web3 technology, he adds. 

DAOrecords and others are also reimagining the way funds are handled. Vandal says money raised from NFT sales will be reinvested into the artists so they can do what they do best—create. 

DAORecords’ approach to contracts is one path forward but there will be others. And if things get complex, artists can tap into the NEAR’s Legal Guild, which provides legal expertise and support to projects, DAOs, and entrepreneurs using the NEAR blockchain. 

“Our main mission is to see how we can reimagine what a record label is,” Vandal says. 

If all goes according to plan, and the future of music does find a secure place on the blockchain, then artists will be able to have a greater say in creative control, through music NFTs, and a better chance of receiving the money they truly deserve. Traditional streaming platforms will evolve into something more inclusive and fair, and live metaverse shows will be more viable.
Ecosystem Update on Decentralizing Governance
COMMUNITY
October 23, 2022
A few weeks ago, the NEAR Foundation announced the formation of a new entity designed to help accelerate the decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem (you can read this forum post here). 

The Foundation received an incredible amount of thoughtful feedback about the NDC and how it would function. As a result, the Foundation has been working with its partners on how best to take this project forward. This post is an update about the progress so far. 

Why does decentralization matter?
Decentralization is shifting the locus of power away from a central node to several smaller nodes and setting up processes to establish group consensus without relying on hierarchies or top-down structures. NEAR was always designed to be run and owned by its community. The Foundation believes the unique properties of a fully decentralized ecosystem make NEAR: 

Antifragile and resilient: having no single honeypot or single legal entity will make NEAR stronger against attacks and challenges.

Censorship resistant: without central parties, no one party can control the network nor take over the ecosystem. 

Adaptable: the system can learn and adapt quickly in different directions to find the right levers of growth.

Inclusive: more voices are involved and heard. 

How will we measure our progress?
It’s important that the progress of this work is measurable and transparent. The intention is to decrease the ownership percentage of key infrastructure by both the NEAR Foundation and Pagoda over time. Those groups identify the following metrics as the key indicators of a successful ecosystem: 

Funding: treasury management and diversification
Protocol operations: validator ecosystem & decentralization
Core development: the protocol and developer ecosystem
Governance and decision-making: decentralization and transparency
Brand: awareness, traction, consistency
Ecosystem services: founder support (legal, marketing, ops, community) 
App layer: tooling, number of projects building, active users
How will we achieve optimal decentralization?
This is the project of the next several months, under the continuing stewardship of the Foundation and Pagoda. The goal here is to simplify and align while encouraging the broadest possible participation from contributors to our ecosystem and community. 

A node architecture applies to the NEAR ecosystem as well as to the tech: every company, DAO, validator, fund is a hub in the NEAR constellation of nodes, all on an equal playing field in terms of their ability to contribute to decision-making and development. This constellation of nodes will work together in a decentralized but coordinated way. The Foundation is currently applying structure around nodes to define levels of accountability and extent of participation in governance processes. 

What is the role of NDC? 
The NEAR Digital Collective (NDC) is a new way of organizing the fast-growing community of users, projects, stakeholders, partners, and backers building inside the NEAR ecosystem. Its ultimate goal is to create a cohesive structure that allows all the component parts of the NEAR ecosystem to collectively decide how NEAR should be run. The NDC will work with the Foundation, Pagoda, and other ecosystem nodes over the coming months to develop a structure and make its first proposals to the community. 

Version one of the governance framework is underway. This framework is the NDC’s vision for a decentralized governance system and core governance components. When complete it will provide details of roles, responsibilities, participation rules, and dispute resolution processes.

In addition, a communications strategy is being developed which will help the community stay up to date with the NDC’s progress.

NDC updates will be posted on the NEAR Forum. If you’d like to get involved with the NDC, you can do so here. 

The NEAR Foundation would like to thank the community for your enthusiasm and input throughout this decentralization process. Striking the right balance between moving fast and growing wisely is always a challenge in the fast-paced world of Web3 and it’s more important than ever to work together. NEAR is well-positioned for the next phase of growth and making sure everyone is strategically and operationally aligned now will help achieve much greater success in the future.


The Beginner’s Guide to the NEAR Blockchain
COMMUNITY
January 17, 2019
Welcome! This guide is intended to help anyone interested in understanding what NEAR actually is. That includes new users, curious community members, prospective partners and new core contributors to the NEAR Collective. I’ll provide a plain-English understanding of what we do, why we do it, and how you can learn what you need in order to get directly involved.

We’ll keep this guide updated over time as well so you can be sure it’s as current as possible.

My assumption is that you’re familiar with the high level of what a blockchain is so I’m not going to be using any of those block-and-line diagrams here. I’ll make no assumption about your level of technicality — you could be a highly technical engineer but you could be a less technical designer or marketer or community manager as well.

The Basics
So what is NEAR (aka “the NEAR Platform”)? NEAR is a decentralized development platform built on top of the NEAR Protocol, which is a public, sharded, developer-friendly, proof-of-stake blockchain. Put another way, NEAR is like a public community-run cloud platform. That means it is a highly scalable, low cost platform for developers to create decentralized apps on top of. While it’s built on top of the NEAR Protocol blockchain, the NEAR Platform also contains a wide range of tooling from explorers to CLI tools to wallet apps to interoperability components which help developers build much more easily and the ecosystem to scale more widely.

Whereas most other “scalable” blockchains use approaches that centralize processing on high-end hardware to provide a temporary boost in throughput, NEAR Protocol’s approach allows the platform’s capacity to scale nearly linearly up to billions of transactions in a fully decentralized way.

NEAR is being built by the NEAR Collective, a global collection of people and organizations who are collaboratively building this massive open source project. Everyone in this Collective is fanatically focused on enabling usability improvements for both developers and their end-users so the next wave of apps can cross the chasm to a more general audience that has thus far been unable to consistently work with blockchain-based apps built on today’s platforms.

This Collective contains a number of extraordinary teams and includes championship-level competitive programmers who have built some of the only at-scale sharded database systems in the world. In a space dominated by academic research projects and failures to launch, NEAR has a team well accustomed to shipping. It is also backed by financial and community contributions by the best names in the crypto industry.

Why are we doing this? Because this is an opportunity to build the ground floor for a far better Internet which puts the user in control of their money, their data and their identity. With the potential for creating composable open-state services, it’s a chance to kick start the biggest wave of innovation — and business progress — since the Internet. This vision is the biggest sort — there are few opportunities in the world larger than the one we are tackling.

Let’s be clear: NEAR is not a side chain, an ERC20 token or a highly specialized task-specific blockchain… it is nothing less than a brand new and fundamentally reimagined layer 1 protocol designed to independently power the base of the emerging Open Web stack.

Ok… Let’s back up and assume you’re still getting up to speed on what the heck a public, sharded, developer-friendly, proof-of-stake blockchain really is.

From 10,000 feet…

The NEAR Collective is basically building the infrastructure for a new Internet which makes it harder for giant companies to steal your data and for bad guy countries to shut it down. People have been trying to figure this stuff out with similar technologies since 2008 but it’s been slow going.

You’ve heard of Bitcoin, that digital currency everyone thinks is only used by criminals and third-world dictators. Well, despite a really bad reputation and a lot of hiccups along the way, ten years later they still haven’t been able to kill Bitcoin so you know it’s built on very resilient technology. We’re basically trying to use that same kind of technology to power a brand new Internet which is just as hard to kill or screw up.

A few other projects, especially one called Ethereum, tried doing this a few years ago and got a really good start but ultimately got totally bogged down in the growing pains of early technology and they were too slow and expensive to get mainstream adoption. Now, a lot of really smart people are working on a way to speed this up and keep costs low while making sure this new Internet is just as hard to mess up as Bitcoin.

You can read more about this journey in the Evolution of the Open Web.

From 1,000 feet…

We aren’t building the only blockchain which is taking on the scaling and cost problems but NEAR has a team that’s all aces and we’re coming at this in a slightly different way.

To set the stage, we’re building a “base-layer blockchain”, meaning that it’s on the same level of the infrastructure as projects like Ethereum, EOS or Polkadot. That means everything else will be built on top of NEAR.

It’s a general-purpose platform that allows developers to create and deploy decentralized applications on top of it. A decent analogy is that it’s sort of like Amazon’s AWS platform, which is where most of the applications you know and love host their servers, except the NEAR platform isn’t actually run and controlled by one company, it’s run and controlled by thousands or even millions of people. You can call it a “community-operated cloud” but we usually prefer to simply call it a “decentralized application platform.”

The Arc of Technology
It’s worth checking in quickly with how we got here because it will help you understand the context of the current ecosystem. A recent post goes into greater detail but here’s the quick version:

Bitcoin is the original “programmable money” or “digital gold”. It has been doing a pretty good job of fulfilling those functions but its use so far as a more general-purpose computing platform (like we’re building) is mostly an accident. Essentially, developers saw they could hack together some basic programs on top of the limited functionality that Bitcoin provided and they began using Bitcoin as the base for some of these new applications because it’s now highly trusted and secure.

Unfortunately, transactions are very costly and, because this was definitely NOT what the Bitcoin platform was meant for, the functionality is very limited. The platform there is slow (roughly 4 transactions per second), costly, and a massive waste of global energy.

Ethereum, back in 2014, tried to directly address this use case by creating a platform that was, from day 1, intended to use the same blockchain technology to build a global virtual computer which any application could be built on top of.

So, if Bitcoin was really just a basic calculator, Ethereum was a fancy TI-83 graphing calculator on which you could write some interesting, if basic, games. While it put lots of good ideas into place, it is also rather slow (14 transactions per second) and still quite costly for developers to use. They’ve tried to upgrade this but are now having difficulty pivoting because of how much technical work, value storage and community growth has already occurred in their legacy model.

“Layer 2” scaling solutions, including “state channels” and “side chains”, have popped up to try and improve the performance and cost of these slower (but rather secure) platforms by taking some of the work off the main chain and doing it elsewhere. They exist for both Bitcoin and Ethereum but haven’t achieved the adoption we hoped.

The first serious challenger blockchains launched in 2017–2018 with a wide variety of approaches to helping the scaling problem. They generally tried centralizing more of the hardware (eg EOS) but most of the approaches are still ultimately bounded by a fixed limit because every single one of the “nodes” that make up the network are repeating the exact same work, whether there are 21 of them or 1,000. So these approaches have been able to achieve throughputs of thousands (or more) transactions per second but often sacrifice decentralization to do so.

Next generation scalable blockchains like NEAR represent the new wave. In this case, NEAR breaks free from the idea that every single node which participates in the network has to run all of the code because that essentially creates one big wasteful bottleneck and slows down all of the other approaches.

To fix this, NEAR uses a technique called “sharding” from the database world (technical explanation) which splits the network so that much of the computation is actually being done in parallel. This allows the network’s capacity to scale up as the number of nodes in the network increases so there isn’t a theoretical limit on the network’s capacity.

Unlike a lot of other sharding approaches, which still require nodes to be run on increasingly complex hardware (reducing the ability of more people to participate in the network), NEAR’s technique allows nodes to stay small enough to run on simple cloud-hosted instances.

But it’s not all about scaling. In fact, for scaling to even be a benefit, developers need to be able to create apps that people actually use and current blockchains make this difficult on both the developer and the end-user. Many of these issues have to be addressed by setting up the protocol properly from the beginning and few projects who focus on scalability have taken this properly into account.

For example, many scalability solutions require developers to build and provision their own blockchain (or “app chain”), which is a massive amount of work and maintenance, and it seems equally as unnecessary for most teams as building and on-premise server farm would be for most traditional web developers. By comparison, NEAR allows developers to just deploy their app without thinking too much about how the infrastructure around it operates or scales, which is more like the modern clouds like Amazon AWS or GCP or Azure which drive almost all of today’s web applications.

A few quick notes…
There are a few kinds of projects that sort of fit into the landscape but won’t be covered much further here:

Currencies: Fundamentally, any token can operate as a currency because you can use it as a unit of account, a medium of exchange and/or a store of value. But a number of blockchains have been created to specifically act either as currencies (Bitcoin, Zcash, Monero…) or operate directly in the world of currencies (Ripple, Stellar, Libra). These are not general computation platforms, which we’re targeting here, so I’ll leave it at that.
Private Chains: Some blockchains, like Linux Foundation’s Hyperledger project or R3 Corda, are pitched to big companies as a more secure sort of blockchain because they allow those companies to control all of the nodes of the network. While NEAR also has the ability to provide privacy in its network shards, I’ll ignore this category of chains as well because the biggest security advantages come from broad public decentralization not building an oligopoly of a few big companies controlling the chain.
“DAGs”: This one is the trickiest because these chains play in the blockchain world and are, essentially, doing the same sort of thing — creating an immutable (append-only) ledger. They are called “DAGs” because of the computer science term “Directed Acyclic Graph”, which is the actual data structure that makes them up. Generally speaking, these projects, like IOTA, tend to build a complicated mess of transactions among lots of small devices, which functions a lot like a blockchain. It’s scalable but has a lot of security and implementation challenges. I won’t dig deeply into it here but don’t forget about DAGs because many chains, including NEAR, use a sort of smaller DAG somewhere in the process of building their blocks.
More about NEAR
So, as we said before, the collection of teams that make up the NEAR Collective is building the NEAR Platform, which is built on top of the NEAR Protocol, which is a sharded, developer-friendly, proof-of-stake blockchain that developers can build decentralized apps on top of.

Let’s dig into what the NEAR Protocol actually does…

A Decentralized Network
As mentioned above, NEAR is similar in principle to the “cloud-based” infrastructure that developers currently build applications on top of except the cloud is no longer controlled by a single company running a giant data center — that data center is actually made up of all the people around the world who are operating nodes of that decentralized network. Instead of a “company-operated cloud” it is a “community-operated cloud”.

Here are a couple of perspectives on why this decentralization is useful:

Developers/Entrepreneurs: It’s good to have an application decentralized this way because, as a developer, you aren’t at the mercy of a single company like Amazon or even a government who might want to shut the app down… both of which have bedeviled companies since the very beginning. During the development process, you also get access to a few extra things “for free” like payments and cryptography, which can be a challenge to set up in a traditional application.
End Users: It’s better to have a decentralized application in some cases because the code is all open source (so you know exactly what it’s doing) and it can’t be changed once it has been launched (so there’s no chance they’re going to do sketchy things with your money or data). Even better, the app is actively disincentivized from hoarding your data.
Let’s dig a bit deeper into how this network is run.

The NEAR Token
So who actually runs all those individual “nodes” that make up this decentralized network? Anyone who feels properly incentivized to do so! The incentives for this permissionless network are powered by the NEAR token.

The NEAR token is how people who use applications on the network pay to submit transactions to the nodes who actually run the network. The token is thus a utility — if you hold it, you can use applications hosted on the network.

This is a little different from today’s web, where applications are owned by single developers or corporations who pay their cloud hosting bills on behalf of their users. Some aspects of the NEAR protocol allow developers to do this as well but, for simplicity, we will assume users generally pay directly for their use of the network.

Because NEAR is a permissionless protocol, anyone can run one of the nodes which operate the network by validating transactions which have been submitted to the network. But running infrastructure, even simple code that you can run from a laptop, costs some money and time, so few people would do it for free. Thus, in exchange for performing that service, you earn a portion of the transaction fees paid by users during each block where you are validating transactions.

How does the network make sure you’re actually running the code you’re supposed to and not just freeloading and earning income? You are required to “stake” your tokens (which basically means putting them in escrow) as a gesture of good faith. If you perform any malicious behavior (like trying to hack the system or mess with other people’s transactions), you will lose your stake. The system figures this out by coming to “consensus” among the nodes in each period and determining how the code should have been run so it’s easy to identify who did so improperly.

Luckily, you really don’t have to think about this stuff because, as long as you download and start up the standard node program from a reputable source, it all happens behind the scenes by the application code you downloaded and so you aren’t likely to lose your stake.

How do you make money as a “company”?
Good question. For starters, NEAR is not a company!

One of the biggest stumbling blocks people seem to have with blockchains is figuring out how they work as if they were traditional businesses. And that’s totally valid since the 2017 bubble saw all manner of convoluted monetization schemes which actually didn’t make any sense and usually didn’t require a token anyway.

The key to understanding this is realizing that the entire economics supporting the NEAR network are embedded at the protocol level and allow anyone to participate in the protocol by running a validating node themselves. Users of the network pay costs to use this network and the providers of the network capacity receive rewards from this activity. There is no shadowy company behind it all which is secretly trying to sell subscriptions or anything like that. The protocol has self-sustaining economics.

The people who build the early technology are rewarded with participation in the initial allocation of tokens and funded by fiat contributions from early financial backers.

What is the NEAR Collective?
NEAR Collective is the globally distributed group of teams, made up of many individual organizations and contributors, who self-organize in order to bring this technology to life. It is not a business or anything nearly so formal. Think of it instead like the groups of people who run large open-source software projects.

One of the Collective’s projects is writing the initial code and the reference implementation for the open source NEAR network, sort of like building the rocket boosters on the space shuttle. Their job is to do the necessary R&D work to help the blockchain get into orbit. The code for that chain is open source so literally anyone can contribute to or run it.

It’s important to stress that networks like NEAR are designed to be totally decentralized. This means they ultimately operate completely on their own and can’t actually be censored, shut down or otherwise messed with by third parties… not even the teams who initially built them! So, while members of this collective are here to get the ball rolling on building the reference implementation, they quickly become nonessential to the operation of the network once it has started running. In fact, once it’s launch-ready, anyone could modify and run the NEAR Protocol code to start up their own blockchain because it’s all open source and any changes would have to be democratically accepted by the independent validators who run it.

That said, the core teams can (and hopefully will) stick around to keep updating the system and performing bug fixes. After the network has been launched, any ongoing development work will hopefully be supported by the governance of the network through grant funding or other means.

One Collective member worth noting is the NEAR Foundation, a nonprofit entity whose entire goal is to build a vibrant and active long-term ecosystem around the blockchain and which has commissioned the development of the reference implementation of that chain. The Foundation helps coordinate some of the early development work and governance activities.

The NEAR blockchain is only one of the NEAR Collective’s projects, so there are plenty of other areas where we can help the ecosystem going forward.

What is the Path Ahead?
In the early phases of this market, projects focused on strutting a bunch of vanity metrics in order to get as many retail investors on board for a big ICO (initial coin offering). That meant trying to have the biggest Telegram community, the most big-name advisors, the best-looking proof-of-concept projects from big businesses and so on.

The ICO boom finished in 2018 so, luckily, we’re able to focus more on what actually matters. In this case, it’s all about community and adoption.

We have extraordinary technical teams who are working to make sure the technology is implemented properly but everything they build will be open source. That means anyone in the world could, theoretically, just copy the code and run their own NEAR blockchain. Now, it’s not quite as easy as that and our teams’ expertise puts this version ahead should anyone try that, but ultimately technology is merely a time-based advantage. The real traction comes from building a great community.

The ecosystem is most useful when there are lots of applications and lots of users who want to use those applications. Because we see a world where the major development paradigm is to build in a decentralized fashion, there is *lots* of ground to cover between here and there. So the key metric we’re shooting for is adoption and usage of the platform.

A lot of projects are focusing on targeting developers to build apps on top of their platforms. That’s obviously important since this is a highly technical field but it’s not the only thing that matters. Specifically, if you look at the history of major development platforms, the ones that are truly successful need to support real, at-scale businesses not just a bunch of side projects.

So building an ecosystem that has the kind of functional breadth and technical depth to create at-scale businesses for the long term is everything to us. That requires significant efforts on the dimensions of community building, education and overall user experience. And plenty of cool technical tools as well, of course!

Luckily, if we succeed, we have the opportunity to drive the greatest wealth creation since the original Internet by helping developers and entrepreneurs everywhere access new markets and build new kinds of businesses on top of the NEAR Protocol. The upside of what we’re doing is super exciting!

Why is NEAR going to succeed?
You can take this from two perspectives — what makes the NEAR Protocol likely to actually get to market and what makes it better to developers/end-users once we get it there? Let’s explore both.

Execution Matters

What says the NEAR team is going to out-execute the competition and get into the market with the right technology on the right timeline?

For starters… NEAR has already launched its MainNet genesis! And it handed off operation to the community as planned :). But also…

If you hop over to the NEAR project website and you’ll see the best team in the industry and, importantly, a team who has shipped sharded systems before in production settings. Having that kind of experienced team behind it already sets the NEAR Protocol apart from almost every other network out there.

This technology is complicated! Technically speaking, sharding is a scaling approach that’s being seriously attempted by roughly a dozen chains, including the market-leading Ethereum… but they’ve taken years to put together their proposal and expect to take more years to implement it. So it’s non-trivial to get this started.

To round things out, the NEAR team has the support of the best financial and non-financial backers in the space and a cadre of informal advisors who span everything from economics and mechanism design to cryptography and blockchain design.

Killer Features for Everyone

This market — and the technology — is still in the “roll up your sleeves, it’s going to be messy” phase. Every major stakeholder group has challenges:

For developers, that means the tools are really hard to use and hundreds of teams are building hundreds of different things that point in all different directions, including some projects inventing their own programming languages. In short, it’s chaos and it’s painful to develop on existing systems.
For end users, the path to getting started with crypto projects and the new web is incredibly long. In the normal web world, you lose a huge portion of users for each step you make them go through before achieving their goal. Right now, to get a brand new user from zero to playing a crypto-based game or sending a friend money, it takes literally *dozens* of steps… and it’s incredibly slow and somewhat expensive to perform these steps. Not ideal.
For Validators, the people who run the nodes which actually operate the network, their options for receiving tokens from their communities are very limited by existing protocol designs so they are forced to compete with each other based entirely on price, which commoditizes their offerings and makes them less attractive to prospective delegators who might lend them tokens.
All of these problems require a fanatical focus on user experience and user needs as the driving force for creating technology instead of starting by driving technology forward and then seeing what happens. We’ve been developing the NEAR Protocol and many supporting tools with a focus on these experiences while stepping forward to engage the broader community on solving these issues. It’s not going to be fast or easy, but it *is* the priority for us.

We describe the NEAR platform as “developer-friendly” or “usable” because it implements approaches at the protocol level which address each of those problems:

For developers, NEAR’s contract-based account model allows them to build advanced permissions into their apps and sign transactions on behalf of users. They also have access to a set of tools that make app composition straightforward and the opportunity for a protocol-level fee rebate which compensates them for creating well-used apps and critical system infrastructure.
For end users, the flexible account model allows them to benefit from “progressive UX”, which means they don’t have to touch wallets or tokens until they are ready because the application is hiding them behind the scenes. For their end-users, the way our accounts are set up allows for smoother onboarding experiences which don’t require as many steps or as many annoying wallet pop-ups.
For validators, having access to “delegation” at the contract level means that they can create infinitely diversified offerings of their services, thus making NEAR a very attractive place to run validating nodes.
What are the use cases for the NEAR blockchain?
One of the hottest questions is what the use cases are for blockchains precisely because it hasn’t been definitively answered. Sure, it’s being used in everything from supply chain tracking to cross border payments, but most of these cases are still early enough that they haven’t achieved mainstream adoption. We’re still in a phase of trying new things to see what new primitives they unlock and how they extend.

In our case, we’re talking to hundreds of existing businesses and opportunistic entrepreneurs about how a truly scalable, usable blockchain can unlock new business opportunities. I won’t spoil the surprises by getting into that here but suffice it to say, there are a few burning areas where people are begging us to solve their problems and existing blockchains have been too slow or expensive or painful for users. A couple of areas to start include gaming and decentralized finance but that’s just the beginning. In many cases, it starts by taking the things people already do on less performant chains — like Open Finance on Ethereum — and scaling them out to more potential users and uses by providing a more versatile and performant chain.

In the long run, just like with the original Internet revolution, the earliest use cases are likely just going to bridge the gap until people invent entirely new business models. So, while we’re excited about addressing things in the short term, we’re especially excited about building a toolkit that future entrepreneurs can combine with their creativity to change the world in ways we can’t even imagine now.

This is where new ideas around composability of microservices and open/transferrable state (a paradigm we call the Open Web) are really exciting. How different will it be to create businesses which sit atop a portfolio of open services rather than gated APIs and centralized platforms? These are new development paradigms that we’ve only scratched the surface of so far.

What should I learn next?
If you’ve gotten this far, you’re probably curious to learn more. There are a lot of resources out there but I’ll recommend a reasonable path through them. Blockchain is a highly technical field that covers just about every discipline under the sun so it can feel like drinking from a firehose without proper guidance.

If you’re pretty new to blockchain, start here to get a strong overview of the ecosystem and its development:

Deconstructing the blockchain ecosystem (2018, slides)
The state of blockchain product, design and development (2018)
After that, it’s a good idea to start diving a little deeper into the functional disciplines. The next layer deeper is to explore the NEAR Protocol White Paper, which is a human-readable deconstruction of every aspect of the project. You can find it along with the other technical papers at:

https://pages.near.org/technology

Technical Stuff
No matter what role you have, you’ll need to get up to speed technically because the lingo is going to come up repeatedly. That doesn’t necessarily mean you have to understand all the computer science underneath it but you should know the basics.

Generally:

What are decentralized applications and how do they work (slides)
Using blockchain in “regular” web and mobile apps (slides)
An overview of “all you need to know” in blockchain development by Haseeb Qureshi
NEAR specific:

Overview:
Check out the NEAR Whitepaper for the first layer of depth into the technical aspects of this project.
From there, this blog (at https://pages.near.org/blog) is the best record of technical specs as they grow and change over time. Subscribe for updates at https://pages.near.org/newsletter.
A good primer is on the Bison Trails blog.
Economics:
Learn about how NEAR Economics work in the Introduction to NEAR Economics post
Dive deeper into the NEAR Economics Paper
If you are curious about acquiring tokens in the future, any information about that will be available on the tokens page.
Technical:
The NEAR Whiteboard Series on YouTube has founders Alex and Illia do technical deep-dives with the founders of over 30 other projects including Ethereum, Cosmos, Nervos, Celo, IOTA, and so on.
Differences between the NEAR approach and Ethereum 2.0 sharding (written with Vitalik’s feedback)
Our sharding talk at Blockchain@Berkeley
Our work with Vlad Zamfir on a sharding POC during the Ethereum SF hackathon
Design
We’re focusing on building a great developer and end-user experience. And here are a few resources that will be helpful from a design perspective.

Improving blockchain developer experience (slides)
The design of blockchain-based applications (DApps) (slides)
Why the future will be driven by “UX Equilibrium”
Check out the San Francisco Blockchain Product, Design and Development meetup group to get a sense of the kind of broader community we’re hoping to build across functional disciplines
Bonus: Look for YouTube talks from the folks at Consensys, Coinbase and IDEO Colab.
General Resources
Podcasts

Podcasts are one of the best ways to educate yourself because the back catalogs can be very informative. I recommend taking up a time-consuming endurance sport where you can listen to them for hours on end and then consuming the following:

Laura Shin’s Unchained (http://unchainedpodcast.co/) and Unconfirmed (https://unconfirmed.libsyn.com/) for plain-English interviews
Epicenter (https://epicenter.tv/) for a bit more technical dives into various systems.
Zero Knowledge (https://www.zeroknowledge.fm/) is another on the more technical side.
Newsletters

There aren’t too many great newsletters and you should avoid anything that is primarily price or trading focused. That said, check out:

Token Economy (http://weekly.tokeneconomy.co/) is a good weekly roundup.
It’s highly Bitcoin-biased but I do enjoy reading Anthony Pompliano’s Off the Chain daily (https://offthechain.substack.com/) because it doesn’t have a lot of BS.
The CB Insights newsletter (https://www.cbinsights.com/newsletter) is more broad-ranging but generally has one general-interest blockchain story per issue.
Writing

The team from a16z Crypto has excellent writing on everything from legal issues around tokens to the future of web 3 with open state. See their main blog at https://a16zcrypto.com/content but also check out the original a16z blog before 2018 when they migrated to the new site for the legacy content, which is great too.
Vitalik from the Ethereum Foundation has been a prolific writer over the years and just about everything he puts out is interesting. Check out his blog at https://vitalik.ca/ and Ethereum-related research at https://ethresear.ch/.
People and Community at NEAR
To stay in the loop on an ongoing basis, follow us on Twitter at https://twitter.com/nearprotocol
To join the more in-depth community discussion and talk to the team, jump into our chat Channels: http://near.chat
To learn more and stay in the loop as we publish more content about the protocol and the industry in general, subscribe to our updates and newsletter (https://pages.near.org/newsletter) and subscribe to our YouTube channel (https://www.youtube.com/nearprotocol)
Thanks for your interest in the project! If you have more questions, suggestions for high-quality resources or just want to engage in the conversation more, Discord is your best bet. We’ll see you there 🙂
NEAR Releases JavaScript SDK, Bringing Web3 to 20 Million Developers
DEVELOPERS
August 8, 2022
Blockchain development has just become a whole lot easier for Web2 developers. NEAR is thrilled to unveil its much anticipated JavaScript Software Development Kit (JS SDK) at ETHToronto, the official hackathon of the Blockchain Futurist Conference, in a significant move to democratize Web3 development.

With NEAR’s JS SDK, more than 20 million developers that make JavaScript the world’s most popular coding language can finally join the internet revolution and quickly build fast, scalable, and user-friendly decentralized applications. Having that many more contributors in the space could bring about a fascinating renaissance to the open web.

Although Rust and Solidity are the most prominent programming languages for Layer 1 blockchains, there are fewer than 2.5 million developers worldwide who use these languages. So, opening up the doors nearly 10x is a major step towards mass adoption. JS runs in every browser, the basics can be taught in an afternoon, it requires no compiler setup, and it comes pre-loaded with useful libraries like RegExp, Math, and Array. The NEAR JS SDK brings this same capability and ease of use to developing smart contracts, unlocking the power of blockchain to a much, much wider audience. 

Commenting on the launch, Illia Polosukhin, Founder of NEAR, says: “Developers can spend less time learning a new language and more time building their application in a language they already know. Millions of developers already know how to program in JavaScript; enabling this group to build novel applications on NEAR is a critical step in achieving our vision of a billion users interacting with NEAR.”

Learn, build, and deploy in minutes
NEAR’s commitment to putting simplicity and usability first is reinforced by this release, making the learning curve for blockchain far less steep than it has ever been. Javascript developers can now set up their first dApp in the same amount of time it takes to spin up a React app. 

The JS SDK release has everything you need to dive right into blockchain development including the contract framework itself, JavaScript and TypeScript contract examples, and example tests. It is implemented in TypeScript, which offers developers implicit, strict, and structural typing, along with type annotations built into your favorite IDE. 

Developers can get started building their first JavaScript decentralized application by following this quick start guide or heading to Pagoda’s landing page to learn more. 

A Closer Look at the JS SDK
The JS SDK provides each contract its own instance of a JS engine running inside it. This design allows developers to write contracts in pure JavaScript or TypeScript, and access all the same features, like oracles, available to Rust contracts.

To get started, run npx create-near-app in your terminal and select JavaScript for your smart contract. Once everything is installed you can test, compile, and deploy your newly created project with ease.

For a more detailed look at the contract structure and other configurations check out this dApp QuickStart Guide on NEAR’s Official Documentation site. 

About Pagoda

The JS SDK is developed by Pagoda, the engineering team that builds and maintains NEAR Protocol and some of the most important tools needed for decentralized application (dApp) development. Developers can use the Pagoda suite of tools to build, deploy, test, and interact with smart contracts on NEAR. For more information on the JS SDK, visit Pagoda or join the NEAR Discord and checkout the #engineering channels where resources like live support are available every day. 


Rove World v2 Simplifies Web3 Ticketing and Loyalty for Brands
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 12, 2023
Rove, one of the most user-friendly entertainment ecosystems in Web3, is now in collaboration with NEAR. Their next release, Rove World v2, will act as a one-stop mobile-based ticketing solution and loyalty rewards program for brands. The update will also feature an in-app store that will include major brands, sports leagues, and musical artists.

Rove and Rove World v2 removes many of the key friction points that occur when brands and creators try to engage their audience with Web3 technology. Notable brands are already on board, as Rove has collaborated with the likes of Tommy Hilfiger on the Web2 side, alongside some of Web3’s largest brands such as Claynosaurz and MonkeDAO, with more exciting partnerships and activations to be announced soon.

“A multichain approach was always at the forefront of our long-term growth strategy for Rove,” said Jason Desimone, Founder of Rove. “Having built and launched the initial version of the Rove World mobile app, our goal is to now expand the reach and traction of Rove to other ‘Layer 1’ blockchain communities and ecosystems that align with our vision and will help us achieve our goals with the launch of Rove v2.”

Let’s take a look at how Rove World V2 is a game-changer for branded NFTs on NEAR.

How Rove is helping brands amp up their NFTs
The Rove ecosystem is a solution to many of the core issues facing brand and entertainment NFT campaigns, launches, and projects. That’s because Web3 itself is often difficult or daunting for the end user, who amongst other things might have questions about the value or utility of NFT ownership.

What Rove brings to the table is a user-friendly mobile app where NFTs are minted in mere seconds and with minimal steps. Brands can also easily add utility to the NFTs which are easily accessible by the user. Rove’s vision aligns seamlessly with NEAR’s Web2.5 strategy of making the onboarding of the next billion users into Web3 as easy as possible.   

Brand and entertainment NFT experiences built atop Rove and NEAR lets users log in seamlessly through familiar means like social media log-in, Apple ID, or facial ID. NFTs are easily sent and received on the Rove app via usernames, again with a similar Web2 interface to that of Venmo.

Rove World v2 release lets brands create buzz
The Rove World v2 release will be a major part of Rove’s suite of tools that make it easy for brands to get started with blockchain technology. Their approach is to allow brands to engage with NFTs in a collaborative manner that benefits creators, brands, and end users alike. Rove World v2 on Near is a huge leap in that direction.

The main feature is the in-app store that brands can now leverage in combination with Rove’s flagship app for curated NFT launches and blockchain-based ticketing. Not only will attendees be able to claim NFTs instantly at the tap of their phone, but brands can also now leverage Rove World v2 to offer seamless in-app purchases via the mobile store.

NEAR and entertainment continue to shine with Rove
Rove has many brands in the pipeline across the fashion, film, music, and sports verticals that want a seamless NFT experience for their customers. This not only brings more notable and forward-thinking brands into NEAR’s orbit but also showcases how the NEAR ecosystem continues to make major strides in the sports and entertainment verticals. 

Eventually, Rove will serve as a central ticketing and NFT project on NEAR. Users can easily create assets, mint the NFT, and distribute it however they’d like. The entire experience will be on a single mobile app, bridging the technical gap between users and brands while giving a fairer share to creators than mainstream NFT marketplaces.

All assets on Rove and Rove World v2 also have some form of utility. Anyone who owns an NFT on Rove can stake that asset for Rove credits that unlock various perks. It’s a great example of how Rove is making all of Web3 simple, including things like staking. 

Ticketing and NFT distribution for brands and creators are about to get a whole lot easier for everyone thanks to Rove. And with Rove World v2’s in-app store, major brands are lining up to be at the forefront of making web3 truly accessible, user-friendly, and financially fair.

“NEAR’s emphasis on onboarding the next billion users into Web3 with a specialized focus on entertainment, sports, and culture fit identically with our approach,” said Rove’s Desimone. “Not to mention NEAR’s industry-leading technology which enables a seamless migration of the easy-to-use features of the Rove World mobile app onto the NEAR blockchain.”
NEAR Ecosystem @ Korea BUIDL Week 2024
COMMUNITY
March 18, 2024
MARCH 26 – APRIL 2, 2024

As the sun rises in the east, a new dawn breaks for NEAR. Fresh from ETHDenver, where we planted a firm flag in the ground to own the Chain Abstraction narrative, the NEAR Ecosystem arrives at Korea BUIDL Week 2024 riding a wave of momentum and armed with exciting updates and alpha destined to reshape the blockchain landscape.

Chain Abstraction – a groundbreaking approach that abstracts away the complexities of different blockchain architectures – was a central focus for us at ETHDenver. We captivated attendees with live demonstrations, showcasing Chain Abstraction’s potential to enable developers to build seamlessly across multiple networks without the need for custom integrations or bridges.

By boldly staking our claim on this game-changing technology, we made a powerful statement at ETHDenver, signaling our intent to lead the charge in unlocking unprecedented levels of cross-chain communication and composability.

Now, as we descend upon Korea BUIDL Week, we are poised to take Chain Abstraction to the global stage, introducing this transformative narrative and its robust, developer-friendly tooling to an international audience of innovators, entrepreneurs, and industry leaders. 

Developers, builders, researchers, and enthusiasts – join us for a week of events as we continue to push the boundaries of what’s possible.

NEAR is Everything Everywhere All at Once at Korea BUIDL Week

We’re hitting the ground running with NEAR Foundation’s second Chain Abstraction Day (apply-to-attend) in our year long series, taking place March 26, 2024 during Korea BUIDL Week. We’re doubling down and taking everyone to the moon!

Our co-founder and CEO, Illia Polosukhin, will be dropping some major alpha at BUIDL Asia 2024, sharing insights into NEAR’s vision for Chain Abstraction and how it’s poised to unlock unprecedented levels of interoperability and composability across decentralized networks.
But that’s not all – we’re bringing the heat with dedicated workshops, content, and a massive hackathon bounty prize up for grabs at ETH Seoul, challenging the brilliant minds of the blockchain world to push the boundaries of Chain Abstraction. Developers, builders, and innovators: get ready to bring your A-game and compete for this lucrative reward.

Don’t miss your shot at NEAR’s massive hackathon bounty prizes at ETHSeoul – check out the link to see what lucrative rewards await the winners. Register for the hackathon today and let your skills shine on the global stage.
And if that’s not enough, NEAR is also proud to support SheFi Summit Seoul, empowering women builders in Web3. This groundbreaking event showcases the incredible female talent in our ecosystem, with NEAR women taking the stage to share their visionary work. 

Abstractooors, you won’t want to miss the fun!
Community Update: MainNet Phase I 🚀 , Hack the Rainbow 🌈 , OWC Demo Day
COMMUNITY
September 15, 2020
Hello citizens of NEARverse! This is NiMA coming to you from a NEARby planet in the Milky Chain … 

These coming two weeks will be packed with a ton of exciting news and events for all stakeholders in the NEAR community and our wider ecosystem of projects, validators, and token holders. 

Starting on September 24th, NEAR will be transitioning into Phase I, aka “MainNet Restricted”, which will prepare NEAR for becoming a fully permissionless community-governed network. Read the section below on Phase I to find out what this means for you! 

This week we will also be kicking off Hack the Rainbow hackathon and webinar series. Even if you are not planning to participate in the hackathon, we invite you to join us on Crowdcast to watch and participate in some of the exciting panels and workshops that we have planned for you! 

3, 2, 1 … ready for Phase I
Phase I, as previously described in this post, is the final stage on our roadmap before NEAR fully transitions to a permissionless community-governed network. The decision to upgrade the network to Phase II is up to validators and token holders (via delegation). NEAR Foundation (NF) will stop running its PoA nodes and will only facilitate this transition by temporarily delegating 40 million NEAR tokens to a set of validators composed of NVAB and the first 30 validators from the community who will be invited to participate! 

You can read more about the details of validation/delegation during Phase I in this post by Stefano, our chief staking sorcerer. 

As a token holder you have the option to already delegate your tokens to the validator of your choice. At launch this will only be possible for more technically savvy community members who are familiar with near-cli (command line tool). As we derisk the process, delegation will also be offered via NEAR Wallet graphical user interface (GUI) and 3rd party validator services. 

Important to note: there will be no staking rewards during Phase I, but your participation will support further decentralisation of the governance process during this transitory phase. It will also allow you to familiarise yourself with NEAR validators early on before the launch of Phase II. 

What’s next? 

As soon as 2/3rd of all staked funds (during Phase I) vote to unlock transfers, lock-up smart contracts begin unlocking tokens as scheduled. A separate update of nearcore software will enable inflationary staking rewards. It’s worth mentioning that staking rewards are immediately transferable and have no lock-up. All tokens in circulation, regardless of lock-up schedule, can be staked to earn staking reward! 🚀

Hack the Rainbow: workshops, panels, bounties and more 🎉

Hack the Rainbow 🌈 is officially starting on Sep 15th with a series of talks and workshops hosted on Crowdcast! 

If you’re a builder/hacker, you can sign-up on Gitcoin to start working on your project or meet other hackers to form teams. In case you’re not sure what to work on during the hackathon … worry no more! We have put together a list of cool ideas on Notion which you can use as a starting point for your own hackathon project.

You can see the full list of webinars on Crowdcast, but here are some of the highlights:

Grilling the Rainbow with Justin Drake (Ethereum 2.0 research lead) and Illia Polosukhin (NEAR co-founder)
DAOs, DAOs, DAOs with Burrrata (Aragon/RaidGuild), James (Moloch/Abridged), …
DeFi: Food, Farming, and Philanthropy moderated by Simona Pop with star 💫 guest $ALEX
Several demos and workshops with our partner projects: Balancer, ChainLink, Sia/SkyNet, …
Introduction to Rainbow 🌈 Bridge, cross-chain demo, NEAR 101 and 102, …
We would like to give a special shout-out to Aaron from Vital Point AI Guild who has put together this amazing overview of his project using Textile, NEAR, and Moloch! Feel free to reach out to Aaron to start BUIDLing the future of decentralised community platforms ✌️

Engineering Updates
Our engineering team is focused on improving bridge devX, working on upgradeability of the bridge and adding native support for EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) to NEAR. This should make onboarding Ethereum applications much easier, and together with the ETH<>NEAR bridge, will position NEAR as one of the best choices for near-term scaling of DApps in the blockchain space.

Generalized token locker for the Rainbow bridge is implemented;
Implicit account creation to match DevX and UX of Ethereum ecosystem is implemented;
Runtime documentation is improved;
We are working combining Wasmer and Wasmtime runtimes;
Native EVM support is ready and is currently undergoing review and testing;
Edu updates
NEAR 101 “NEAR for Web Developers” shipped. Slides and recordings available (bit.ly/near-101)
NEAR 102 “NEAR for Ethereum Developers” available next week (will bebit.ly/near-102)
“Show and Tell: Rainbow Bridge” makes explaining the bridge more fun
As always looking for YOUR input to our educational priorities. If you have any suggestions, ideas or preferences and would like them to be heard, email me directly at[email protected] or find me on Telegram (amgando) or Discord (Sherif#5201)

Open Web Collective (OWC) Demo Day 🎉
Are you joining the most anticipated blockchain Demo Day?

Attend theOpen Web Collective Demo Day, organised byNEAR, and get an exclusive look into the future of blockchain projects and DeFi. Nine pioneering startups will showcase their DApps and pitch their projects to top crypto investors!

Join us on September 23, 2020 at 8am PST. Save your free spot now 👉https://www.crowdcast.io/e/ace93fjx/register

The Open Web Collective is an innovative blockchain accelerator designed by NEAR to help passionate entrepreneurs grow their startups into scalable & successful companies. Our founders have worked with leading partners and investors such as IDEO, Deloitte, Pantera Capital and more and have already closed funding rounds of more than $3.5M. Join the Demo Day and be at the forefront of blockchain developments.

If you’re an entrepreneur or working at a blockchain startup and would like to participate in our program, please reach out. Connect with us onTwitter,Medium,YouTube, and Email.

This week we are watching, reading, and listening to … 

Jake Brukhman, founder of CoinFund and Crypto OG, talks to Sasha about various models in the fast-paced crypto funding and governance space. 

You can listen to this episode of Building the Open Web podcast on Spotify or Apple Podcasts.

That’s it for this update. See you in the next one! 

Your friends,

NiMA and the NEAR team 
How to Convert Web 2 Games to Web 3
DEVELOPERS
July 1, 2022
Gaming has become one of the fastest growing sectors of the Web3 world. On NEAR alone, there are nearly 100 projects building gaming titles in the ecosystem. But harnessing the unique properties of blockchain can be a challenge. Which is why an ecosystem project, in collaboration with the NEAR Foundation has created a handy tutorial for anyone considering converting their games to Web3.

If you’ve ever tried to find a simple answer to the question of “How do I start converting my mobile game to NEAR blockchain?”, then this Web2 to Web3 tutorial is for you.

The tutorial was created by Sigma Software Group, a consultancy group with Swedish and Ukrainian roots, as a result of its own work converting a free to play large-scale mobile AR game called Black Snow, which makes players the heroes of an epic sci-fi movie at their physical or virtual locations.

Through this conversion, Black Snow is utilising NFTs to radically reimagine the gaming experience for players. So the team have decided to share its knowledge with other gaming companies looking to explore similar conversions.
Essentially, there is no way of just “converting” your game to use a blockchain, although NEAR strives to make the transition and onboarding to web3 ecosystem as natural and hassle free as possible. Thus, even the very first step to add NFTs into a mobile game presents a multi-faceted challenge that includes game mechanics, architecture, engineering, and live ops. 

A step-by-step guide
The tutorial begins with explanations of the very core concepts, which you’ll need to understand before starting the move to web3. It highlights both the benefits and constraints of moving to blockchain.

Then, you’ll find a sequence of practical steps along with code examples to guide you through converting a regular mobile game to a game with NFTs in the NEAR ecosystem.

These steps cover the technical aspects of how to choose libraries, frameworks and which third-party solutions can be used to implement the blockchain architecture. 

The tutorial describes how NFTs are used to represent ownership of an asset in web3 world, how to implement them technically, and on which moment you need to stay focused during this process. Further, it covers aspects on NFT usage and minting as well as NFT marketplace integration. 

The tutorial also provides a number of tips and tricks, which are not that obvious for any newcomer to blockchain, concerning security, scalability, availability, and costs of a web3 application.
NEAR Joins Multichain To Bring More Cross-Chain Capabilities to the Ecosystem
COMMUNITY
June 10, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce the NEAR blockchain will be integrated into the Multichain ecosystem, opening the door for thousands of tokens to interact with the NEAR ecosystem seamlessly. 

Multichain is a cross-chain router protocol on a mission to be the ultimate router for Web3. Since its inception in 2020, it has helped bridge more than $80 billion worth of assets across 52 blockchains and nearly 2,000 different currencies. In addition to token interoperability, Multichain allows messages and contract calling to take place across chain with its anyCall feature. Projects such as Hundred Finance have used this feature to create cross-chain DAOs.  

The NEAR blockchain will join other projects including Aurora, Avalanche, BNB Chain, Bitcoin, Celo, Ethereum, Oasis, Polygon, and a host of others. 

“NEAR’s mission is to help onboard a billion users into Web3,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. “We believe the best way to do that is to create a seamless experience for users by weaving together different chains allowing users to easily and quickly connect and use other networks.”

The NEAR ecosystem already has a number of bridges to other networks. Rainbow Bridge allows assets to move between NEAR, Aurora, and Ethereum with little more than a few clicks. The Octopus Network allows appchains from Polkadot to run on NEAR’s simple, secure, and scalable blockchain. 

The addition of Multichain extends this interoperability to the broader ecosystem, giving users more choice and developers greater freedom.  

“We share a common vision with NEAR that we are going to promote and push the boundaries of the multi-chain era,” said Zhaojun, Co-Founder & CEO of Multichain. “Multichain will facilitate communication and interoperability between NEAR and other networks. Really excited to hold hands with NEAR towards the multi-chain future!”

Secure Bridge
While bridges have been in the news lately after a spate of recent hacks, Multichain is a leader when it comes to security. 

Multichain uses a non-custodial model and secure multi-party computation (MPC) to help guarantee the security of crypto assets, and has been audited by TrailOfBits, SlowMist and PeckShield. Security reports are available on the company’s github page. Multichain has also established a bug bounty scheme and security fund to incentivize valid bug reporting from communities. 

NEAR is now live on Multichain. 
Case Study: Bernoulli-Locke-Locke’s David Palmer on the DAO-Owned SailGP Team
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 14, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms. In recent installments, NEAR Foundation explored the BOS with Pagoda’s Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi, heard from OnMachina co-founder Jonathan Bryce on building decentralized storage, and dove into Move-to-Earn with Sweat Economy’s Oleg Fomenko.

In the latest case study video, Bernouilli-Locke founder David Palmer details how his group is implementing a DAO for team ownership and governance for SailGP boat racing, by leveraging the power of NEAR.
NEAR Community Update: January 17th, 2020
COMMUNITY
January 17, 2020
Welcome to our first Community Update of 2020. This is a weekly summary of our progress and community. As you might realise, we decided to change the structure of our community update. If you have any thoughts, please let us know what you think. Want something mentioned? Tweet us at @NEARProtocol or send us a message.

Content 
Tune in to Ep. 32 of NEAR Protocol’s Whiteboard Series with @celoHQ to hear from Time Moreton
Evgeny’s tweet thread explaining transactions in NEAR
Have a read of Flux’ use case series. The best part? — They publish new ones every Friday
Our must watch

Alex’ sharding jam with Dean Eigenmann and Ryan Zurrer

Call for Participation
We want to hear from you! Will you take 15 seconds to fill out this survey so we can make more of the kind of content you love? 
Stardust: One of our beta program projects just released their integration guide. If you have experience with nodejs and would like to help out by providing some feedback, please reach out to Canaan: [email protected].
Community
Illia, Amos and several NEAR core developers just came back from an event series and hackathon in China. Have a look at the pictures on our Discord.
We did a complete overhaul of our community channels. Please join us in our new Telegram channels for development and validators.
Engineering
108 PRs across 31 repos by 28 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, near-bindgen-as, near-explorer, near-bridge, nearlib, near-runtime-ts, near-wallet, create-near-app, near-fiddle-api and near-shell

Responding to view requests from a different actor than the actor that produces blocks to ensure requests do not interfere with chain maintenance in nearcore
Limiting the number of blocks / chunks per height to prevent spamming in nearcore
New infrastructure to execute smart contracts from python tests in nearcore
Release 0.4.12 of nearcore
Added near dev-deploy which allows developer to deploy contract easily on throwaway account (similar to studio) during development in near-shell
We made our tooling compatible with GitPod (for now onlyhttps://github.com/nearprotocol/near-chess converted)
Added account list in near-explorer
Added EthRelay in near-bridge
Use near-bindgen-as in near-runtime-ts
Expose batch action promise API in near-runtime-ts
Stake Wars is on hold until the implementation of Doomslug is fully finalized and our internal testing becomes all green.
Upcoming Events 
We are going to be at ETHDenver between the 14th and 16th of February
And at the same time, you can meet us at SF Developer Week Expo and Hackathon
Are you a developer, student, or entrepreneur interested in joining us at DevWeek2020? Fill out this brief survey for a chance to win two free tickets!

@One of our events in Shanghai earlier this month; kudos to our co-hosts HashQuark and IOSG
https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Community in Focus: Web3 vs Web2 Communities
COMMUNITY
June 13, 2022
Each new wave of cultural and technological change brings with it a redefinition of community. As the world shifts from the centralized Web2 paradigm to the burgeoning world of Web3, communities are undergoing rapid redefinitions. In this shift, communities are reimagining how they organize, what they do, and how individuals can ultimately benefit.

“Web2 communities happen around a product rather than an organic network of like-minded people gearing up to contribute towards a long-term goal,” says Max Goodman, founder of Gyde, a low-cost resource directory designed to help all manner of communities in Web3.

“User interaction is primarily with marketing officials or customer service or other users, not key decision-makers in the organization,” Max continues. “Web2, as a rule, does not share value with builders and users. Instead, it extracts value.”

Goodman touches on one of the most important differentiators between Web2 and Web3 communities. But combating an extractive, centralized model is only the tip of the iceberg. Here’s a deeper look at how Web3 communities are evolving, and the role that builders on NEAR are playing.

Correcting for Web2 biases against the underclass
Goodman is building Gyde as a response to one of Web2 biggest issues: how entities approach community. In Web2, biases can exclude certain marginalized groups or members of the underclass. Google Maps and other location-based search applications, for instance, don’t show relevant or helpful services those living in poverty. This top-down approach is something Web3 projects, particularly Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), are turning on its head.

“I’m bullish on cooperative, non-hierarchical, ‘impact DAOs,’ that focus on social good,” Goodman continues. “We can now break free of traditional hierarchical structures and move towards communities or networks, rather than top-down entities. This can be done without replicating existing problematic behaviors such as excluding traditionally marginalized folks from participation.”

With Gyde, Goodman is striving to build a viable alternative to traditional Web2 map-based search applications. One that is based on the needs and values of individual communities, not what any centralized entity dictates. Goodman also plans to implement an impact DAO, so that community members can earn tokens for adding new locations like food banks or non-profit services, in addition to those who post helpful reviews.

“We’re building community in-person first,” explains Goodman. “We’re onboarding traditionally excluded people into crypto, onto NEAR specifically, with one-on-one educational meetings. And the best part is that this helps solve the non-profit problem of connecting with their clients fast. We like to call it map-to-earn.”

Impact DAOs and Web3 projects like Gyde are addressing the needs of marginalized communities and the “Unexotic Underclass”. Communities that Web2 has largely ignored.

“It’s not uncommon to believe that poor people do not understand technology or advanced topics,” Goodman points out. “But homeless people were mining Bitcoin to pay for pizza with their laptops in San Francisco in 2013. Society oftentimes implicitly excludes the unexotic underclass by requiring IDs for work. A NEAR address does not care.”

From consumers to participants in musical communities
Goodman and Gyde hint at another defining difference between Web2 and Web3 communities: the economic model and resource distribution. Web2 companies tend to view individuals as consumers or users. In Web3, people are more akin to creators, contributors, and stakeholders on a more level economic playing field.

“What communities want, need, and what brings them together hasn’t really changed in millennia,” says Tim Exile, founder of collaborative music platform Endless.fm. “What’s changed is the technology and the products people built on top of that technology. Web2 hasis been effective at leveraging a broad, one-to-many cost dynamic. That’s why we see a skewed distribution of producers and consumers in the ‘going viral’ attention economy.”

With Endless.fm, Exile is attempting to re-define economic models for Web3 creative communities, building on the NEAR blockchain. With Endless.fm, individuals can enter collaborative “jam sessions” with musicians. The can sample music,and create music NFTs in what Exile and others have referred to as the “creator-owned economy”. The beauty of Web3 community is that it erases hierarchical boundaries between music creators and consumers, allowing for a more open economy. 

“Industrial media is very binary—either you’re a producer or a consumer,” Exile explains. “But in Web3, everyone is a participant. And those who are the most intrinsically motivated to lean in and participate in communities can be rewarded and empowered more economically.”

Exile explains that the most fundamental shift occurring within music-driven communities is that association and context are becoming more valuable than pre-packaged experiences. Rather than paying $30 to attend a concert, people can create music socially with other community members in real-time, mint their own music NFTs, and decide on the price or value of their music on the open market.

“With Endless, we’re unbundling music in a way that’s much more about creating context than it is about creating content,” he says. “In Web3 communities, ultimately the value is really driven by relationships, interactions, histories, and stories. And that’s what we’re building towards.”

Empowering sports clubs and communities
Sports teams, clubs, and communities are other areas where Web3 is poised to disrupt where Web2 could not. In Web2, the dynamic is very similar to what Exile describes in music: a one-to-many distribution model that’s not all that participatory. 

“The NFT wave has been very popular amongst the top one percent of professional athletes,” says Kyle Ludon, VP of product management at Stack Sports. “But the truth is that 99 percent of athletes aren’t professional, and these people aren’t being addressed with this new wave of technology.”

Ludon points to the projects that Stack Sports is building on NEAR using NFT technology as a way to build sports communities from the ground up. A parent who attends their child’s soccer game and captures a picture of their first goal, for instance, can upload that image and mint it as an NFT “trading card.” They can even add unique design elements to the digital collectible. Aside from being cool digital keepsakes, Ludon projects that NFTs can open doors for communities like little league teams, cycling clubs, and social or passion-based athletic groups.

“Athletes and parents can share NFTs of their special moments and even trade them amongst each other. You might even create a DAO around your club or team, use the NFT as a form of membership, and even implement voting or governance,” posits Ludon.

This is already coming to fruition with SailGP’s partnership with NEAR, in which DAO will eventually own a sailing team. In Web2, sports are more about corporations, franchises, and elite athletes selling products or experiences via hierarchically designed communities on platforms like Facebook. In Web3, athletes and enthusiasts can mint and exchange NFTs, create their own DAOs, and directly organize with like-minded enthusiasts.

A distributed notion of society
These are just a few examples of how the nature and definitions of community are changing in real-time. Endless.fm, Stack Sports, and Gyde are all using the NEAR blockchain to make communities more inclusive, collaborative, and economically prosperous. 

“In Web3, no one really cares that you’re labeled as marginalized in general society,” summarizes Goodman from Gyde. “They care about your skills and ability to communicate. We’re embracing a distributed notion of community, which will create larger opportunities for participation in the Web3 economy.”
NEAR Transparency Report: December 2
NEAR FOUNDATION
December 2, 2022
As part of the Foundation’s commitment to transparency, each week it will publish data to help the NEAR community understand the health of the ecosystem. This will be on top of the quarterly reports, and the now monthly funding reports. 

You can find the quarterly reports here.

You can find monthly reports on funding here.  

Last week’s transparency report can be found here. 

The importance of transparency
The NEAR Foundation has always held transparency as one of its core beliefs. Being open to the community, investors, builders and creators is one of the core tenets of being a Web3 project. But it’s become apparent the Foundation needs to do more. 

The Foundation hears the frustration from the community, and it wants to be more pro-active in when and how it communicates. 

New Accounts and Active Accounts
New Accounts are new wallets being created on the NEAR blockchain. In November the number of new accounts has been declining. This week, new account creation has averaged 16,000 new accounts per day, down from a monthly average of 24,000 wallets per 24 hours.

Looking at the quarter, the highest day for new account creation in Q3 was September 13 where 130,000 new wallets were created in one day. Collectively, these numbers equate to 22,454,000 total wallets on the NEAR blockchain.

The Daily Number of Active Accounts is a measure of how many wallets on NEAR are making transactions on chain. Over the last week, the number of daily active accounts has been on average, above 50,000, remaining consistent across the week.

Historically, as the chart below shows, this is a decline from highs of more than 100,000 active accounts on the network. The highest number of active accounts on any one day in Q3 this year was logged on September 14, where 183,000 accounts were active.

New Contracts and Active Contracts
Contracts on NEAR are simply programs stored on a blockchain that run when predetermined conditions are met. The Daily Number of New Contracts is a valuable metric for understanding the health and growth of an ecosystem.

The more active contracts there are, the more projects are actively engaging with the NEAR protocol. The chart below shows a cyclical rhythm to new contracts, with rises and falls a common occurrence. Over the last seven days, the number of new contracts has risen from a low of 12 new contracts on November 27 to a high off 44 new contracts on November 30.

Active contracts is a measure of contracts that execute in a 24 hour period. This number has remained consistent throughout the last week with an average of 500 active contracts on the NEAR network. Taking a historical perspective on these numbers, the average has declined in Q3, with previous highs in active contract activity coming in the third week of September 2022.

Used Gas and Gas Fee
Gas Fees are a catch all term for the cost of making transactions on the NEAR network. These fees are paid to validators for their services to the blockchain. Without these fees, there would be no incentive for anyone to keep the network secure.

Over the last few weeks, the daily amount of gas, expressed here as PetaGas, which is the equivalent of 0.1 $NEAR, has risen. To learn more about Gas on NEAR, there is an excellent explainer in the NEAR White Paper. The Daily Amount of Used Gas has increased, briefly topping 8,000 PetaGas, before returning to the weekly average of just over 7,000 PetaGas.

The Daily Amount of Gas correlates with the Daily Gas Fee used on the network. Over the last week, there has been an uptick in the amount of Gas used, which can be brought on by a number of different factors. One of the most common is increased activity among users of the network.

Daily Transactions
The daily number of transactions is a record of how many times the blockchain logged a transaction. The earliest data available is from the third and fourth weeks of November. The data shows that daily transactions had been trending upwards and at the end of November, were averaging more than 500,000 transactions per day. Since then, the number has declined sharply and now sits below 400,000.

These reports will be generated each week and published on Friday.


Introduction to NEAR Protocol’s Economics
COMMUNITY
April 23, 2020
Intro to NEAR Protocol’s Economics
NEAR is a developer platform for the Open Web. This means that NEAR has a set of protocols and tools that enable people to build a new wave of community-owned applications.

The main protocol, NEAR Protocol, is a blockchain to power the security, economy, and incentives of NEAR’s developer platform.

Open Web is a paradigm shift of how applications and businesses are built. In the current paradigm, a company with investors and shareholders started by founders provides some service to its users. Over time, though, the divide between what users want and what generates more revenue usually grows. At the same time, companies try to reduce external dependencies to defend against the chances that one of its suppliers fails or gets acquired by competition.

The principles of Open Web are as follows:

Governed by community
Hackable and composable
Open and permissionless
User-first and sovereign
Open markets
To ensure these principles are followed, a combination of efforts is required:

A trustless and permissionless base layer that can be leveraged by all parties for various contracts, marketplaces, rooting sovereign data storage and more.
An independent currency that can be operated in a permissionless way and that can have a monetary policy to incentivize the behaviors of the parties.
The ability of new teams to create their own community-driven economies around their applications.
Backend for high-risk and low-trust serverless decentralized applications.
NEAR Protocol sits at the bottom of the stack, providing a permission-less base layer, independent currency and predetermined monetary policy and marketplace of computing resources.

This article explores the economic principles governing NEAR Protocol, and how they keep aligned the interests of its community.

Native cryptocurrency Ⓝ
$NEAR (Ⓝ) is the native cryptocurrency used in NEAR Protocol and, as the lifeblood of the network, has several different use cases. As the native currency, it secures the network, provides a unit of account and medium of exchange for native resources and third-party applications, and, over the long term, aims to become a unit used by individuals as well as by contracts and decentralized finance (DeFi) applications.

Security of the Network
NEAR Protocol is a proof-of-stake network which means that Sybil resistance from various attacks is done by staking Ⓝ. Staked Ⓝ represent a “medallion” for service providers that supply a decentralized infrastructure of servers that are maintaining state and processing transactions to NEAR users and applications. In exchange for this service, node providers receive rewards in Ⓝ.

Network Usage Fees
The utility of the network is provided by storing application data and providing a way to change it by issuing transactions. The network charges transaction fees for processing the changes to this stored data. The NEAR network collects and automatically burns these fees, such that higher usage of the network will increase the incentives to run validating nodes (as they receive higher real yield).

On the other hand, Ⓝ is also used as collateral for storing data on the blockchain. Having 1 Ⓝ on an account allows the user to store some amount of data (the specific amount depends on the available storage but will increase over time).

Medium of Exchange
Because Ⓝ is readily available on the protocol level, it can be easily used to transfer value across NEAR applications and accounts. This monetary function enables the creation of applications that use Ⓝ to charge for various functions, access to data, or performing other complex transactions. Ⓝ is exchanged within the network in a peer-to-peer fashion, across various applications and accounts, without the need for trusted third parties to clear and settle transactions.

Unit of Account
As mentioned in the “Network Usage Fees” section, Ⓝ is used to price the computation and storage of the NEAR infrastructure, which is offered by node operators. At the same time, applications and external parties can use Ⓝ as a unit of account for their application services or to measure the amount of the exchange in cases of Ⓝ as medium of exchange.

Genesis and inflation
At the launch, the NEAR network will have 1 billion Ⓝ. Each Ⓝ is divisible into 1024yocto Ⓝ.

Ⓝ Issuance and inflation
NEAR Protocol’s issuance of tokens, or inflation, is necessary to pay network operators, also called Validators. There is fixed issuance around 5% of the total supply each year, 90% of which goes to Validators in exchange for computing, storage, and securing the transactions happening on the network. 

As mentioned above, all transaction fees collected by the network get burned. Therefore, the issuance of Ⓝ is actually ~5% minus transaction fees. This means that, as the network grows in usage, issuance can become negative, introducing negative inflation in the protocol. Since the smallest unit of account for Ⓝ is yocto Ⓝ, the system can keep its exchange price resolution as small as infinitesimal fractions of the U.S. dollar, even with a reduction of the overall supply by two or three orders of magnitude.

avg # of tx/day	Min Ⓝ in fees/day	Ⓝ mint/day	Annual inflation
1,000	0.1	136,986	5.000%
10,000	1	136,985	5.000%
100,000	10	136,976	5.000%
1,000,000	100	136,886	4.996%
10,000,000	1,000	135,986	4.964%
100,000,000	10,000	126,986	4.635%
1,000,000,000	100,000	36,986	1.350%
1,500,000,000	150,000	-13,014	-0.475%
2,000,000,000	200,000	-63,014	-2.300%
Expected inflation per day given different number of tx

This table includes a few assumptions. But the main point is to show how inflation gets affected by usage.

Note that even though 1 billion transactions per day is a pretty large number for existing blockchains, that’s about ~11k tx per second of sustained load (also these tx are benchmarked as payment tx; more complex smart contract calls will require more gas and cost more).

Bitcoin pioneered cryptocurrencies and the idea of fixed supply. At the same time, constant reduction in security rewards available to miners creates interesting issues long term with the longest chain consensus (for more details read this paper). In NEAR Protocol, we addressed this issue by guaranteeing a constant security reward rate to Validators. And instead of issuance declining independent of the usage, NEAR’s issuance declines with more usage of the network.

Also note that in comparison to Bitcoin and Ethereum, token holders can avoid inflation by delegating/validating with their stake, preserving their percentage or even increasing it (see details in the “Validators” section).

Network Usage
Transaction fees
Each transaction takes some amount of bandwidth to be included in the block and computation to be executed. We combine both of these resources into a unified measure called “gas” that Validators must spend to execute a transaction. NEAR uses WebAssembly Virtual Machine (VM) to execute transactions and provides a mapping from each VM operation to the amount of gas it spends. The goal for gas is to represent a unified measure of resources spent to receive, execute, and propagate a transaction on default hardware.

Users who want to send such a transaction must pay a transaction fee, which is computed based on the amount of gas that the transaction will require multiplied by the current gas price.

Gas price is defined systemwide and changes from block to block in a predictable manner. Specifically, if the previous block used more than ½ of the gas limit for that block, the gas price is increased by a small margin. Otherwise, the gas price will decrease. There is also a minimum gas price which provides a floor for the price.

Minimum gas price is selected to provide a cheap transaction price for users and developers, with the expectation of collecting ~0.1 Ⓝ per full chunk (part of the block from a shard, see Nightshade for more detail). This is designed to make blockchain usage more accessible. Instead of the economy of the scarcity of transaction processing (how it works in Bitcoin and Ethereum), the goal of this system is to hit the economy of scale by increasing the number of shards.

Validators when including transactions do not use fees for ordering, instead, there is a deterministic ordering based on transaction hash. As explained in the “Issuance” section, fees that are collected from transactions are burned instead of being redistributed within the network of Validators. 

This is done for a few reasons:

In the Proof-of-Stake network, every validator does the same amount of work by executing and validating transactions; the block producer is not all that special to be rewarded. In the case of a sharded network, it’s even more complicated to distribute these fees, as there are also receipts between shards where gas is bought when a transaction arrives but executed by different Validators.
Validators are still incentivized from burning transaction fees as that directly increases their yield. For simple example, let’s say total supply is 100, 50 of which is staked. Let’s 5 tokens are paid in epoch reward, then if there are no fees – yield is (55/105)/(50/100)-1~=4.76%. While if there were 5 tokens of fees burned, yield would be (55/100)/(50/100)-1~=10%.
This also incentivizes locking of tokens in other applications by offsetting the issuance.
Storage
Storing data on the blockchain has a long-playing role. Networks like Bitcoin and Ethereum misprice storage by only allocating reward to miners who mined specific transactions instead of future miners who will need to continue storing this data while they are mining.

In NEAR, Ⓝ also represents the right to store some amount of data. Token holders have the right to occupy some amount of the blockchain’s overall space.

For example, if Alice has a balance of 1 Ⓝ, she can store roughly 10 kilobytes on her account. This means that users need to maintain a fraction of Ⓝ as a minimum balance if they want to have their account, similar to how checking accounts in banks require a minimum balance. 

This allows contracts which are maintaining important state to pay to Validators proportionally to the amount of data they are securing. For example, an important contract of the stable coin that would maintain the balances of millions of users will accordingly need to have a reserve of Ⓝ to cover the amount of storage it will require on the blockchain.

Storage	Ⓝ locked for Storage	% of Total Supply
10 MB	1,049	0.0001%
100 MB	10,486	0.0010%
1 GB	107,374	0.0107%
10 GB	1,073,742	0.107%
100 GB	10,737,418	1.07%
1 TB	109,951,163	11.00%
Amount of Ⓝ locked at different amounts of total storage. 

For reference, Ethereum is at ~100 GB of storage right now, the USDT contract takes ~100 MB. Contrast that with the total amount locked in Ethereum’s DeFi is ~2.5% of ETH.

There are many ways a developer who doesn’t have a large amount of Ⓝ can still occupy space. For example, a developer can borrow Ⓝ from either off-chain entities or via on-chain lending protocol. Paying back with revenue that his application generates.

Additionally, this can also provide a good opportunity for developers to issue their own token, where they allocate a portion to the Ⓝ token holders who are interested in supporting this application. They attract more support and get Ⓝ required to launch their application and maintain its state, while their token captures revenue from the application usage.

Validators
Rewards
Validators as a group are paid fixed 90% of around 5% of total supply annualized (other 10% go to Protocol Treasury). For example, in the first year Validators will receive around 45,000,000 Ⓝ. Rewards are distributed per epoch — every half a day. Which is on average ~61,640 Ⓝ of reward per epoch to be allocated between Validators.

Each validator receives a reward proportional to their participation. As a validator stakes, how many seats they take is determined via simple auction. After each epoch finishes, the validator will be evaluated based on how many blocks and chunks they produced versus what they were expected to produce.

In the event it’s below 90% of what’s expected, the validator is considered to be offline/unstable, won’t get any rewards, and will be removed from the coming epoch’s validation (i.e., force unstaked). Validators with at least 90% online presence will receive rewards that grow linearly, with 100% of the reward given for those with a 99% or above online presence. Read details of uptime and reward computation here.

For example, if there are 100 seats, a validator that has one seat – will get ~615 Ⓝ per epoch if they are above 99% of uptime. If the validator was 95% uptime, they will receive 55% of their reward – ~342 Ⓝ.

% staked / amount staked
10%	25%	50%	70%	90%	100%
number of tx / day	100,000,000	250,000,000	500,000,000	700,000,000	900,000,000	1,000,000,000
1,000	38.10%	12.38%	3.81%	1.36%	0.00%	-0.48%
10,000	38.10%	12.38%	3.81%	1.36%	0.00%	-0.48%
100,000	38.10%	12.38%	3.81%	1.36%	0.00%	-0.48%
1,000,000	38.10%	12.38%	3.81%	1.36%	0.00%	-0.47%
10,000,000	38.14%	12.42%	3.85%	1.40%	0.03%	-0.44%
100,000,000	38.58%	12.77%	4.17%	1.71%	0.35%	-0.13%
1,000,000,000	43.07%	16.43%	7.55%	5.01%	3.60%	3.11%
1,500,000,000	45.69%	18.56%	9.52%	6.94%	5.50%	5.00%
2,000,000,000	48.41%	20.78%	11.57%	8.93%	7.47%	6.96%
Annualized yield at different amounts staked and number of transactions per day.

Selection
NEAR is a sharded blockchain designed to scale throughput as usage grows. In the beginning, the system starts with one shard and 100 validator seats. Based on the stake offered, the protocol proportionally assigns these seats, and redistributes the rewards. Therefore, if the protocol will have 40% of the total supply at stake, each seat will require 4 million Ⓝ stake.

However, the number of seats will increase linearly with the number of shards: when 8 shards are running, 800 seats will be available. And every seat will require 500,000 Ⓝ stake, lowering the barriers of entry for more Validators.

A simple auction takes place to actually determine the seat price. Let’s say you observe the following set of proposals (and rollovers from Validators of previous epoch):

Validator	Stake	# Seats
V1	1,000,000	48
V2	500,000	24
V3	300,000	14
V4	300,000	14
V5	20,000	0
Example proposals by Validators and number of seats they would get at the selection process

The seat price given this proposal is determined by finding an integer number that if you divide each validator’s stake with rounding down (e.g., for V5, 20,000 / 20,500 rounding down will be 0), you will get a required number of seats. This determines who will get their seat(s) and who’s funds will be returned back. In the case of the table above, the seat price will be 20,500 if there are 100 seats, and that gives the last column’s number of seats to each validator.

The protocol automatically measures the availability of Validators: if a node fails to be online above a certain percentage when it should be creating new blocks, it loses the status of validator and will be required to submit a staking transaction again. The penalty for low-quality nodes is missing epoch rewards.

In the beginning, a small number of shards will require a larger stake, preferring professional Validators and organizations that will allocate significant resources to NEAR Protocol.

As the network and its usage grow, the number of seats will increase with the number of shards. Therefore, the minimum stake necessary to become a validator will be lower and the seat price selection mechanics will allow for a long tail of Validators to come on board. 

This long tail of non-professional Validators might individually have higher risk of failure. But together, they will provide greater decentralization and fault tolerance. At the same time, Validators with a larger stake will need to commit more computational resources when they have to validate multiple seats across different shards.

Delegation
Validators can receive Ⓝ to stake from third parties via Delegation. NEAR Protocol enables delegation via smart contracts. Validators that want to accept delegation can create a special contract and allow users who don’t want to run their own nodes to deposit their Ⓝ into it. By doing so, funds deposited to that contract are available to the creator of the contract to use as part of their stake.

In the beginning, there will be a reference delegation smart contract. In the future, we can expect Validators to come up with their own staking contracts that provide various taxation benefits, liquidity, and yet-to-see features. The goal is to allow professional Validators who might not have funds to participate, increase the total stake and thus the security of the protocol, and improve the redistribution of rewards across the ecosystem. 

Protocol Treasury
We believe in sustainable development. We allocate 10% of epoch rewards to the treasury. This treasury account is designed to continue sponsoring protocol and ecosystem development. Over the long term, it should be managed by a decentralized governance process.

Before that is fully established, we allocate the custody of this to the NEAR Foundation. As decentralized governance progresses and clearly shows that it can effectively manage execution, we strongly suggest for the network to hard fork and change the custody of the treasury to a new entity.

Contract rewards
As one of the steps to create a sustainable path for contract independent operation and possibly developer income, NEAR Protocol allocates 30% of transaction fees to the contracts these transactions touched.

For example, if Alice sent a transaction to smart contract A with 0.0001 Ⓝ fee, and contract A doesn’t call any other contracts, it will receive a reward of 0.00003 Ⓝ (which is 30% of 0.0001 Ⓝ). On the other hand, if contract A is using contract B for 50% of its functionality (measured by gas usage), A and B will split the contract reward, each one receiving 0.000015 Ⓝ. This way popular libraries can receive a flow of funds from all the client applications that are using them.

Developers of the contracts can program various ways how these funds can be used. For example, they can be kept on the contract to allow it to allocate more storage space. DAO managing this application can decide what to do with these funds. Or there might be some third-party token buy-back & burn mechanics for contracts that have their own token.

Account Name Auction
NEAR Protocol uses human-readable account names. This allows for much better user experience for regular blockchain use cases. We also expect that these accounts will be used across various novel use cases (e.g., DNS, certification, and applications) as they represent the user’s digital identity that is also connected to finances, data ownership, and cryptography—and, in the future, supporting more of Decentralized Identifier (DID) standard.

We split account names into two groups by length: those longer than 32 characters and those shorter. We expect that shorter accounts names will have way more value for users compared to longer ones. Longer account names can register on a first-come-first-serve basis.

To give everyone a fair chance to acquire short account names, a naming auction will start shortly after MainNet launch.

Each week’s account names—such that sha256(account_id) % 52 is equal to the week since the launch of the auction—will open for bidding. Auctions will run for seven days after the first bid, and anyone can bid for a given name. A bid consists of a bid and mask, allowing the bidder to hide the amount that they are bidding. After the seven days run out, participants must reveal their bid and mask within the next seven days. The winner of the auction pays the second-largest price.

Proceeds of the auctions then get burned by the naming contract, benefiting all the token holders.

Conclusion
NEAR Protocol provides a powerful cryptocurrency Ⓝ, which links together Validators, developers, users and token holders into one ecosystem.

Each role has different goals:

Users want security for their assets and data.
Developers want more adoption and capture a sustainable source of revenue.
Validators want to receive higher income for providing validation services.
Token holders want their tokens to hold value long term.
The goal of the economic design is to align these interests and incentivize the growth of the ecosystem. For example, as the price of Bitcoin grows, so does the security of the network. In other words, BTC becomes a better store of value as it becomes more expensive, and more people want to store their money there. On the other hand, Bitcoin is missing developers and hasn’t yet attracted active development.

With NEAR Protocol, as demand for tokens grows from new users and developers and increases usage of applications, we see the alignment of incentives between everyone. 

Validators will receive a higher income in Ⓝ because there is less staked and more tokens burned (increasing their yield). As more people use the network, their individual usage fees can be kept low while validators are still compensated for storing more data overall, which leads to the network becoming more secure and users (who are also token holders) receiving more security for their assets and data stored on the chain. The network also becomes more attractive as a place for developers to store data and assets because it has higher security and more users.

Add it all up, and growth of the demand from users and developers and the reduction of supply via staking, transaction fee burning, and state staking leads to the NEAR token balancing good utility for users and developers with what validators need to help make the network increasingly more secure. 
Get in my Beta Program! | July 12, 2019
COMMUNITY
July 12, 2019
We’ve just announced our funding! We had a big press release this week announcing we’ve raised $12.1 million dollars in a round led by Metastable and Accomplice. We’re using this to power our growth to become the greatest blockchain the world has ever seen. We’re doing this in the form of a new Beta Program and we’ve opened new positions across the board. If you think you could see yourself working at Near, shoot us an email or application. Check out open positions here.

With the funding we’ve also released the Nightshade Paper (link), which is the most comprehensive overview to date of our approach to sharding, validation and consensus in the NEAR Protocol.

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
Our main update on the community front is that we’ve opened applications for our developer beta program. We’re looking for high-quality dApp projects to launch alongside the NEAR Protocol on Day 1 of mainnet, as well as receiving tokens, technical support and a dedicated adviser from NEAR. If you have a blockchain project idea, learn more and apply for the beta program here.
With our funding announcement, we have received a lot of press – including from CoinDesk, TheBlock, Coin Telegraph, and of course, the Daily HODL.There are mentions of us in the media as far afield as Russia and China.
There were also some wonderful posts by Near investors, including IDEO Lab, Greenfield and Xspring.
Illia is back in China (I know, wasn’t he just there?) to present at StakingCon and give a workshop on developing blockchain smart contracts in Beijing.
(Caption: Illia presenting with Chinese slides to developers in Beijing. One day his Chinese will be good enough to do the whole presentation in Chinese! Until then we have interpreters.)
Coming up, we’ll be presenting a multi-part series on Crypto-Prototyping at Dweb Camp July 18-21 south of San Francisco. There are some tickets still available so register here.
WRITING AND CONTENT
Videos
Saito Whiteboard Session: https://youtu.be/KGOZ7udYz0A
Fireside Chat with Chase Freo from Alto.io: https://youtu.be/sZCJarxVZpg
Alex Skidanov on Usability and Scalability at IBM Blockchain Dev Summit: https://youtu.be/U9WBW3R06oI
Blog
WASM for Blockchain in 2019 by Maksym Zavershynskyi — https://medium.com/nearprotocol/wasm-for-blockchain-2019-d093bfeb6133
NEAR fundraise and beta program announcement — https://pages.near.org/blog/fundraise/
We’ve published the sharding paper with more details on the approach NEAR Protocol is built upon: https://pages.near.org/downloads/Nightshade.pdf
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS

A lot of our recent efforts have been dedicated to preparing for our announcement of funding. We’re still dealing with updating our libraries with new user flows. 

Over 30 PRs across 12 repos and 14 authors. Featured repos: nearcore, nearlib, near-shell, and near-wallet.

Beta Program has launched: https://pages.near.org/beta
Published the sharding paper with more details on the approach NEAR Protocol is built upon: https://pages.near.org/downloads/Nightshade.pdf
We’ve opened new positions: https://pages.near.org/careers 
Application Layer
Integration testing near-shell and wallet
Added blockchain interface to the runtime in rust
Blockchain
Stabilizing cross-shard transactions and receipts.
Implemented validator kick out
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us: there are new jobs we’re hiring across the board!
If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends!

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Korea BUIDL Week Recap: One Account to Rule Them All
COMMUNITY
April 3, 2024
Last week, Korea BUIDL Week was the epicenter of cutting-edge thought leadership in Web3. From cross-chain innovations to the convergence of AI and blockchain, the week brought together industry pioneers to explore the technologies shaping the decentralized future.

Chain Abstraction Day Tackles Interoperability

Chain Abstraction Day kicked Korea BUIDL Week off by tackling the need for seamless blockchain interoperability. NEAR’s Co-founder and CEO, Illia Polosukhin, made a compelling case for “Why Web3 Needs Chain Abstraction” by highlighting how abstracting away individual chains can unlock Web3’s full potential. Mike Purvis of Proximity Labs then painted a vision of “Ushering in the Era of Bridgeless Cross-Chain DeFi,” while Riqi Ras presented “Bitcoin Beyond Gold”, showcasing snippets of a testnet transaction where a NEAR account signed transactions on Bitcoin. This proof-of-concept highlighted the potential of chain signatures to not just interact with Bitcoin, but even enable trading of Bitcoin Ordinals natively using the cross-chain signing capabilities. 

Blockchain Brain Trust: Vitalik Envisions Account Abstraction, Illia Unleashes Chain Signatures

At BUIDL Asia, anticipation was high for Vitalik Buterin’s talk on “The Future of Account Abstraction.” By abstracting user accounts, he explored enabling frictionless cross-chain experiences. “The next 10 years are going to be about really upgrading the ecosystem at the user level,” Buterin said at the event. Illia Polosukhin then took center stage, announcing NEAR’s groundbreaking “Chain Signatures” for managing assets across chains via a single account. Illia demonstrated how Chain Signatures allow signing transactions on multiple chains from a single NEAR account, paving the way for seamless cross-chain dApp development.

Illia and Vitalik later joined forces for a can’t-miss fireside chat dissecting the “AI/Crypto Fact vs Fiction.” As two towering minds in their respective fields, they offered unparalleled insights into AI’s transformative potential for Web3. The lively discussion separated hype from reality, exploring how AI could enhance privacy, scalability, and usability of decentralized systems. Vitalik and Illia also examined the risks of centralized AI models and the importance of developing decentralized AI aligned with Web3’s core values.

ETH Seoul Dives Deep into Chain Signatures and Decentralized Intelligence

The event baton was then passed to ETH Seoul, where Mike Purvis expounded on “Chain Signatures: Cross-Chain Without Bridges.” Purvis explained how this technology enables secure cross-chain communication, eliminating the need for centralized bridges. He demonstrated how it could pave the way for seamless blockchain interoperability and conducted a workshop showcasing potential use cases.  Boris Polania made a case for “Decentralized Intelligence”  discussing how combining blockchain transparency with AI data analysis could revolutionize collective decision-making processes. The conference featured comprehensive developer tracks put together by DevHub, covering everything from building on NEAR to integrating Chain Signatures. ETH Seoul also hosted a hackathon where teams built innovative decentralized apps, with members of the NEAR ecosystem serving as judges to evaluate and provide feedback on the projects. 

DeFiBrain, an AI-powered DeFi investment assistant that harnesses NEAR to discover and analyze promising DeFi products, won NEAR’s Chain Signatures bounty and ETH Seoul’s first prize. DeFiBrain impressed with its advanced AI models and seamless NEAR integration. The first prize of $5,000 for the NEARDevHub’s “AI Governance is NEAR” bounty was awarded to Connor AI, which integrates AI into DAOs to automate execution processes and empower decentralized decision-making. Connor AI was commended for its novel AI-DAO approach.

Vitalik Outlines Ethereum’s Scaling Roadmap, Illia Tackles AI Misconceptions

Not to be outdone, Vitalik outlined his vision for Ethereum’s future in “Dencun: Where We Go From Here.” During his talk, he primarily focused on EIP 4844, also known as “Blobs”, which represents a significant upgrade for Ethereum scaling. This upgrade allows Layer 2 networks to post batched transactions at a much lower cost. Consequently, Vitalik issued a call-to-action, encouraging developers to build solutions for today’s needs. Closing the event, Illia Polosukhin delivered a talk cheekily titled “Secrets About AI that Web3 Doesn’t Want You To Know,” likely pulling back the curtain on AI’s game-changing implications. Illia’s provocative talk challenged misconceptions about the limitations of current AI while hinting at potential breakthroughs that could supercharge decentralized applications.

SheFi Emphasizes Cultivating Inclusive Web3 Communities

Finally, SheFi spotlighted building inclusive Web3 communities. NEAR’s Yadira Blocker led the discussion on cultivating Web3 culture and community – a critical topic as the ecosystem grows. The panel emphasized genuine communities are earned through authentic connections, not purchased. It also discussed how global Web3 communities localize efforts while valuing in-person meetups to drive progress collaboratively. Unlike Web2, community heavily influences Web3 marketing and adoption.

From multi-chain architectures to AI convergence, Korea BUIDL Week demonstrated that Web3 is rapidly evolving towards a future of seamless cross-chain functionality, enhanced intelligence, and open participation. The insights shared will undoubtedly help shape the coming decades of decentralized innovation.
NEAR’s BOS Impact at We Are Developers 2023 World Congress
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 27, 2023
The excitement is palpable as NEAR hits the ground in the vibrant city of Berlin for the We Are Developers World Congress 2023. With a packed agenda and a bustling venue, the stage is set for a memorable exploration into the Blockchain Operating System (BOS).

Amidst a crowd of enthusiastic developers, NEAR is showcasing the immense potential of BOS. The team looks forward to sparking curiosity, fostering innovation, and expanding horizons within the global developer community, setting the tone for a transformative two days.
Let’s take a quick look at what happened on Day 1 with NEAR at We Are Developers, before taking a look at what’s on the schedule for Day 2, July 28th.

On the agenda: NEAR’s engaging BOS offerings
The conference kicked off with “Exploring BOS: The Blockchain Operating System by NEAR”, scheduled for Thursday, July 27, at 3:30 PM and led by Andrej Šarić, senior NEAR developer. The presentation dissectd how BOS is redefining the application-building landscape while highlighting user-friendly onboarding and seamless multi-chain interactions.

Friday, July 28, will see the enlightening “Mastering BOS: A Developer Workshop”, helmed by Andrej along with fellow senior developer, Alen Meštrov. A must-attend for developers keen to enhance their BOS acumen, this comprehensive workshop promises an in-depth, immersive learning experience, centered around the innovative capabilities of BOS.

Additionally, the “Tekuno Activation: Devs Without Limits” is adding an exciting gamified element to the conference, running throughout both days (more on this below). Attendees are encouraged to collect PODs at the NEAR booth, as well as during both BOS sessions, culminating in the exclusive “We Are Devs” POD and a shot at winning a ticket to NEARCON 2023.

Making waves: the buzz at the NEAR booth
NEAR’s BOS booth is serving as a dynamic hotspot of interactivity and engagement throughout the event. Attendees enthusiastically participated in the “How Big of a Dev BOS(s) are you really?” quiz, testing their knowledge about blockchain development while adding a dose of fun to their conference experience.

In addition to being a learning hub, the booth continues to be a place for connection. Visitors had the opportunity to meet some of the brilliant minds behind NEAR, fostering meaningful interactions, exchanging ideas, and discussing BOS’s transformative potential. The booth was also brimming with awesome NEAR merchandise for everyone who stopped by.

Tekuno activation: “Devs Without Limits” POD
The feature stealing the spotlight at the NEAR booth is the Tekuno activation. Offering the exclusive “Devs Without Limits” NFT collection, attendees can collect PODs at the booth, the “Mastering BOS” workshop, and the “Exploring BOS” talk. Successfully gathering these PODs unlocks the ultimate “We Are Devs” POD and offers the chance to win a free ticket to NEARCON 2023.

With the We Are Developers World Congress 2023 in full swing, the NEAR team continues to engage passionately with attendees and fellow developers. Every conversation, presentation, and interaction amplifies the buzz around the transformative power of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS).

There’s plenty more to explore and experience as the event unfolds. If you haven’t yet visited the NEAR booth or attended our sessions, seize the opportunity to dive into BOS and discover its revolutionary impact on the application-building process. And don’t forget to partake in all the fun and rewards, like a chance to win NEARCON tickets with Tekuno PODs.


NEAR Foundation and MARBLEX to Expand Korea’s Web3 Gaming Industry with Aurora
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 4, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new strategic partnership with MARBLEX, a blockchain subsidiary of Netmarble Corp, that will help expand Korea’s Web3 gaming industry. MARBLEX will build on Aurora, NEAR’s Ethereum-compatible layer, for maximum scalability and blockchain gaming accessibility to onboard more players to Web3. 

Under the new partnership facilitated by the NEAR Korea Hub, NEAR Foundation and MARBLEX plan to achieve mutual growth by linking the NEAR blockchain and Aurora with WARP Bridge to enable interactive collaboration, promote global joint marketing events, and enhance brand awareness. 

Through WARP Bridge, competitive and casual gamers alike will now be able to enjoy a variety of games and exclusive content through NEAR’s Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The BOS leverages the NEAR Protocol’s fast transaction speeds as well as effortless scalability and onboarding (via FastAuth) to make the onboarding experience as easy as possible for the masses. 

MARBLEX: a developer and publisher of mobile games
A Web3 gaming giant constantly pushing the boundaries of what’s possible, MARBLEX is a well-established developer and publisher of mobile games with more than 6,000 experts from across the globe. MARBLEX’s goal is to bring the highest quality Web3 games to market by providing key services such as a cryptocurrency wallet, decentralized exchange, token staking, and an NFT Marketplace.

“We expect NEAR’s core narrative to play a pivotal role in bolstering the overall MBX 3.0 ecosystem,” said Junki Moon, Business Division Director of MARBLEX added. “Through the collaborative integration of the NEAR Foundation’s extensive technical expertise with the content prowess of the MBX ecosystem, we will maintain our position as pioneers in the ever-evolving landscape of the global blockchain trends.”
Robbie Lim, GM of Business Development at NEAR Foundation, added: “This collaboration with MARBLEX will be an important milestone in promoting various use cases based on BOS (Blockchain Operating System). We will continuously advance the gaming ecosystem of NEAR Protocol as well as attract numerous users to enter the Web3 scene by onboarding high-quality MBX content.”

NEAR Korea Hub, which oversees business development in Korea and Asia, played a key role in this strategic partnership. The Hub also sees the partnership as breaking a barrier to Web3 entry for mobile gamers. 

“NEAR Protocol provides a user experience similar to Web2 using Fast Auth account abstraction feature, greatly lowering the initial entry barrier to Web3,” said a spokesperson from NEAR Korea Hub. “We will continue to strongly partner with excellent domestic companies such as MARBLEX to implement a user-centered ecosystem where users can easily enjoy all services.”
NEAR at ETHDenver: Building a Multi-Chain Future
COMMUNITY
February 9, 2022
It’s that time of the year when Open Web builders head to the Web3 castle in Denver, Colorado. ETHDenver is upon us, and the NEAR community will be there with a full slate of events (February 15-20) focused on building a multi-chain future. 

Why is the NEAR community attending ETHDenver? Good question. The NEAR community believes in a collaborative, decentralized, multi-chain ecosystem of Open Web and Metaverse platforms. Projects like Aurora and Rainbow Bridge, for example, have helped build simple and secure bridges between NEAR and Ethererum, allowing users and developers to freely move assets between the two networks. 

The NEAR community is a big believer in a multi-chain future, whereby interoperable blockchains work collaboratively to build simple, scalable, and secure ways to onboard the world to Web3.

NEAR @ETHDenver  
The NEAR community is part of ETHDenver’s Kickoff with the NEAR #BUIDLWEEK Lounge. Stop by the NEAR #BUIDLWEEK Lounge (at the Jonas Brothers Building at 1037 N. Broadway), which is open to all from Tuesday, February 15 through February 17 starting at 10am MST. Here you’ll find a whole host of blockchain events, including panels, speakers, workshops, demos, and happy hours all designed to empower and educate attendees. There will be a slew of partnered programming from Brave, CoinFund, Aurora, Octopus Network, and more.

For the full schedule and information about NEAR at #BUIDLWEEK and Main Event, please visit our sign-up page. We also encourage all NEARians attending virtually and in-person to tune into NEAR’s Twitter Spaces.  

The NEAR community is also a Cypher Sponsor of ETH Denver. We’ll have additional panels, talks, and workshops for the Open Web community, and will be taking part in the hackathon, which wraps on February 20. The NEAR community also has a number of bounties for ETHDenver hackathon participants, which will be announced through ETHDenver next week. 

Check out ETHDenver’s full schedule, where you can learn more about featured NEAR sessions and more. 

NEAR #BUIDLWEEK Lounge Program – Let’s Build a Multi-Chain Future
A number of NEAR community partners will be joining us at ETHDenver within the NEAR #BUIDLWEEK Lounge.

On Monday, the 14th at 3:00pm MST, tune in for a YouTube livestream hosted by NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin on the fundamentals of building on NEAR. Watch as he codes and goes deep into the art of developing on NEAR in real-time. 

On Tuesday, February 15, Octopus Network will host talks on appchains, GameFi, game Guilds, NFTs, the Metaverse, as well as community building and network effects. After lunch, join NEAR community teams for sessions on Sharding and Developer Tools ending the day with a Developer Office Hours Happy Hour.

Wednesday the 16th starts off with a “In Rust We Trust Brunch” followed by some programming with Aurora, Meta Pool, and Brave. Meet Aurora’s CEO Alex Shevchenko and learn How to Build on Aurora, the Ethereum scaling solution on NEAR. Daniel Bocanegra, who leads Business Development at Aurora will host a session on “Getting Onboarded to Aurora’s Ecosystem.”Stop by for other panels and presentations by the MoonNoobs DAO platform, Renaissance DAO, API3, and more. 

We’ll end the 16th with Brave’s DevRel Leader, Sampson, who will cover, “Opportunities for Gaming and NFTs as the Entry to the Masses”, and then we will move into a Fireside Chat between Luke Mulks, Brave’s VP of Business Operations, and NEAR’s Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin. They’ll be exploring the need to build bridges with ETH-based projects, and why blockchain needs the whole ecosystem working towards building simple, scalable, and secure ways to onboard billions to Web3. 

Thursday the 17th is all about DAOversity. Among a range of events showcasing the NEAR community’s commitment to inclusivity, will include the NEAR DAOversity Brunch and Building (Rainbow) Bridges panel, co-hosted by H.E.R. DAO. Join the NEAR community for the brunch, hosted by NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament and Illia Polosukhin, featuring a panel on multi-chain collaborations with founders and project leads building allies across (rainbow) cross-chain bridges. All are welcome!

DAOversity day is also set to feature Research and DAOvelopment programming. This afternoon schedule features a Multi-DAO Workshop as well as presentations on DAOs from Chroncats, Governauts Research Initiative, AstroDAO, and more. 

Notable NEAR Talks at ETH Denver
If you’re looking for some cool talks, then don’t miss the speaking engagement by NEAR Co-Founder Illia Polosukhin. Also, check out Josh Quintal’s “Dev Console Session” on Monday the 14th.

Looking for some other NEAR talks to check out? Then be sure to drop in on a talk being held by MoonNoobs’ Justin Friedman, and the Aurora NFTs Panel Discussion, which features the people behind Endemic, Chronicle, and TENKbay.

How to Claim Your POAP
POAP stands for Proof of Attendance Protocol. A POAP basically proves your attendance at ETH Denver and NEAR events. 

NEAR will be participating in ETHDenver’s POAP scavenger hunt. Be sure to find our table in the shill zone and we will instruct you on what you have to do to claim your POAP. 

Visit the Maker Space NFT Art Gallery
The NEAR #BUIDLWEEK Lounge will also be hosting an NFT Art Gallery. This event is part of our Satellite Maker Space, organized in collaboration with ETH Denver. 

One of the highlights of the Satellite Maker Space will be a new augmented reality mobile application called MozARt, which will integrate NFT features on NEAR. They will have a drawing station, where drawings will come to life in the Satellite Maker space. 

Register and Learn More 
Register for NEAR’s #BUIDLWEEK Lounge at ETH Denver and learn more. There you will find plenty of info on the NEAR community’s agenda, including a schedule of events, what to expect, speaker bios, and hackathon bounties. 

You can also find out more about Developer Console, developer platform for creating and maintaining dapps on NEAR, featuring interactive tutorials, scalable RPC service, and operational metrics. Be one of the first to experience RPC as a service!
Register for NEAR’s May Town Hall: NFTs and NEAR
COMMUNITY
May 16, 2022
Hey there, NEAR World! This month we’re exploring the world of NFTs. Join the community for NEAR’s May Town Hall on May 26, 2022, at 5:00pm GMT (1:00PM EDT/10:00am PDT) for a deep dive into NEAR’s ecosystem of NFT projects and platforms. 

NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament will open the Town Hall with updates on the NEAR community and ecosystem, as well as the Foundation’s ongoing effort to onboard millions into Web3. 

The Town Hall will also include other exciting news, including details of a major NEAR Protocol upgrade. There will also be updates on strategic partnerships, ecosystem funding and education progress, upcoming crypto events, and a panel dedicated to the ever-evolving world of NFTs.

NEAR Protocol Validator Upgrade
One of the NEAR Foundation’s major missions is to help decentralize NEAR Protocol’s block validation. This is accomplished through regular protocol upgrades. 

In the May Town Hall, Pagoda will detail NEAR’s new staking pool contract, which will give validators additional features and functionality. Over the next few months, ecosystem players will work with validators and delegators to help migrate currently staked $NEAR from the old staking pool (poolv1.near) to the new staking pool (pool.near). 

Pagoda will share more details, including the pool migration timeline for validators and delegators. 

A Panel on NFTs in the NEAR ecosystem
NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament will return to talk briefly about NEAR’s vibrant NFT marketplaces, projects, and creatives. There will also be a panel on NFTs, with surprise guests from across the NFT and NEAR ecosystems. 

Register for the May Town Hall
To join the conversation with the global NEAR community, register for the May Town Hall. 
Case Study: Pagoda Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi on the BOS
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 31, 2023
NEAR is a home to a number of amazing apps and projects. These developers, founders, and entrepreneurs are using NEAR to effortlessly create and distribute innovative decentralized apps, while helping build a more open web — free from centralized platforms.

To showcase some of the innovative products launching on NEAR, the Case Studies content vertical is making a return. With its new multimedia makeover, Case Studies will demonstrate how these projects are leveraging the power of NEAR’s layer 1 protocol and the Blockchain Operating System (BOS) to distribute their apps and onboard the masses into the open web. 

The new NEAR Case Studies series kicks off with a video featuring Pagoda’s Chief Product Officer Alex Chiocchi. For much of the last year Alex has been deeply embedded in the development and launch of the BOS — an OS for an Open Web. 

In the BOS Case Study video, Alex explains how the BOS takes advantage of the NEAR Protocol’s scaling architecture, while allowing builders to code in languages they already know, like Javascript. As you’ll learn from Alex, the BOS makes it easy to use the tools you already know to build apps that engage users, while fostering an open web free from centralized platforms. 

Stay tuned for more Case Study videos on NEAR, the Blockchain Operating System for an open web.
NEAR Community Update: May 3, 2019
COMMUNITY
May 4, 2019
Just about every team we have, whether on the application layer or the blockchain layer, is working towards an upcoming release of their respective projects so there has been a lot of code written in the branches during what would otherwise appear to be a quiet couple of weeks. On the community side, our online hackathon will continue into the next week and we have been typically gregarious about hosting events with other high quality projects in the space so we can share knowledge and build awareness.

We’ll be in NYC for blockchain week so look us up if you’re in town!

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
Our alpha “NEAR One” hackathon is in progress now and we’re working to support the dozen-or-so teams who are involved during the next couple of weeks before it wraps up. Peter injected his usual flair during the kickoff:

Upcoming Events

[ONLINE] April 27 — May 11: Hack One Online Hackathon
[NYC]: Consensus Week (various events)
[NYC] May 13: The Future of Defi: MakerDAO, Compound, Uniswap and Balance.io
[NYC] May 14: Blockchain Gaming in ’19: Neon District, OpenSea, Dapper Labs, Arcade Distillery
[NYC] May 16: Crypto Community Managers Happy Hour
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

WRITING AND CONTENT
Recording of the multi-chain protocol panel with Polkadot, Cosmos, and Parity
Rust Parallelism for non-C/C++ developers by Dr Max Zavershynskyi
Whiteboard Series Episode 16 with Chi from Quarkchain
Recording of a fireside chat between CEO Alex Skidanov and Zaki Manian from Cosmos
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
We continue to move the wallet towards its next UX milestone while shifting from research mode to implementation mode of sharding and economics on the blockchain layer. We’ve been test driving and benchmarking against other consensus algorithms as well.

There were 29 PRs in nearcore from 7 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

Application/Development Layer

Adding Access keys to Nearlib
Cover access key functionality with tests
Switch HTTP RPC interface to JSONRPC in both Node and nearlib
Support configuration of multiple deployment environments for CLI tools
Updated Chess and Memegen to use latest CLI tools / nearlib
CLI dev tools (near-shell):
Use NODE_ENV-driven config in tests
Optimized AssemblyScript builds
Removed extra dependencies to allow faster installs
NEARStudio
Ask user confirmation before closing tab with unsaved changes
Downloaded project has dev keys necessary for deploy
Wallet
Working on account recovery: UI and backend
Blockchain Layer

Added ETH headers validation as initial step for ETH <> NEAR bridge.
Benchmarking tools and comparison with Tendermint.
Clean up repo by splitting into runtime and chain.
Docker containers with first version of Testnet and studio/tools are published. Added scripts to spin Testnet up on GCloud.
Refactor transaction verification in MemPool to have validation code in one place and improve security
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends ?

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
Why doesn’t NEAR just replicate Ethereum Serenity design?
DEVELOPERS
November 7, 2018
NEAR Protocol builds a sharded public blockchain that executes smart contracts on a WASM virtual machine. If this sounds like Ethereum 2.0 (aka Serenity), it’s because they actually are very similar. However, based on Serenity’s multi-year roadmap, we believe that with our team and focus, we can deliver significantly faster.

Despite the release not being around the corner, Serenity’s specification is mostly available. As of time of this writing (November 6th, 2018), the spec for the beacon chain is complete, and the spec for the shard chains, while not published yet, is mostly finalized (in the absence of the official spec, I have a rather detailed blog post that describes the design for Ethereum 2.0 shard chains). This blog post also contains some details of the Ethereum’s beacon chain design that are not immediately obvious from the specification, that I learned from an in-depth conversation with Vitalik.

NEAR differs from Serenity in several aspects. Most notably, NEAR uses different consensus algorithms and fork choice rules in both the beacon chain and the shard chains. Given the extensive experience that Ethereum researchers have, strong motivations are required to validate such decisions.

In this post, I will describe the differences between the two protocols and motivations on why we use our own consensus algorithms and fork choice rules rather than those designed by the Ethereum team.

The Beacon Chain
It is highly desirable for the beacon chain not to have forks. In both Ethereum and NEAR, the beacon chains are responsible for selecting validators for shard chains and for snapshotting the state of the shard chains (the so-called cross-linking), with both processes relying on the beacon chain not having forks.

BFT consensus tradeoffs
Achieving zero forkfulness is highly challenging. The majority of modern BFT consensus algorithms do not scale beyond 1000 participants, while the permissionless blockchain networks are expected to scale to millions or possibly billions of people. Therefore, consensus on each block has to be reached by a number of participants that is significantly smaller than the total number of participants in the system. It can be done in two somewhat similar but fundamentally different ways (assuming a proof-of-stake sybil resistance mechanism exists):

Make the stake for becoming a consensus participant (“validator”) so high that only on the order of 1000 participants can participate. Generally, that would be six digit numbers in the US dollars equivalent per validator. In this approach, a fork in the blockchain would result in millions or dozens of millions of dollars slashed. Even if a fork does occur, it will be a significant event, with consequences that are likely to result in a hard fork with some mitigation of the damage. For all practical reasons, such a system can be assumed to have zero forkfulness. It is arguable, however, whether such a system is decentralized. People capable of staking such sums of money within a particular blockchain ecosystem tend to know each other, meaning that the security of the system will be in the hands of a tight-knit group of people. It can result in all sorts of non-slashable misbehavior such as censoring, stalling, etc.
Make the stake for becoming a validator low, and randomly select 1000 validators to create blocks. A new set of validators can be selected for each block, or rotated every few blocks. Assuming that the total number of malicious actors in the system is substantially less than ⅓, the probability of more than ⅓ corrupted validators appearing in a sample is very low. The problem with this approach is that the validators can be corrupted after they are selected (see this blog post with some further analysis). Corrupting a sufficient percentage of a shard is extremely hard, but not impossible. Therefore, a system that uses such an approach cannot rely on the absence of forks.
Footnote: For example, Algorand, that claims to never have forks, uses the latter approach. When answering a direct question about bribing validators, Silvio Micali responded that Algorand assumes that less than 50% of all the validators are corruptible. It is not only an unreasonable assumption but also in my opinion invalidates some of the other Algorand declared properties.

In essence, the design decision comes down to some compromise between centralization and forkfulness. An early design of Casper heavily favored centralization (see this link with a deprecated design, in particular MIN_DEPOSIT_SIZE being set to 1500 ETH). In the present designs NEAR favors forkfulness, while Ethereum’s Casper builds a consensus algorithm that scales to hundreds of thousands of validators, thus avoiding the compromise altogether. The pros and cons of both and why we do not use Casper are as follows.

NEAR’s approach
NEAR’s approach with Thresholded Proof of Stake and a flavor of TxFlow (our custom consensus) favor forkfulness.

With our current constants, each block is backed by approximately 0.1% of all the stake in the system. Thus, assuming the same valuation as Ethereum’s today ($20B) and 5% of all the tokens staked for validation, the cost of corrupting 50% of one block’s validators is around ~$0.5M, which is significantly less than the cost of corrupting the entire system.

Importantly, however, while for each block (produced once a minute) the probability of a fork is not negligible, the probability of reverting a large sequence of blocks is very low. Within one day, the validators (in terms of tokens staked) for each block do not intersect, so the number of tokens slashed to revert a tail of X blocks is linear in X. In particular, reverting all the blocks produced in one day would result in at least ⅓ of the total stake of all validators slashed.

Ethereum’s approach
Despite the fact that the beacon chain spec is published, the exact details of how the validation on the beacon chain is done and which subset of validators finalizes the blocks is not easy to derive from the spec. I had an in-depth conversation with Vitalik to better understand the current design.

To become a validator in Ethereum, it is sufficient to stake 32ETH. The number of validators is capped at approximately 4 million, but the expected value in practice should be around 400K. Shards sample committees from those validators, but on the beacon chain, all validators attest to each block, and all validators participate in Casper (see my blog post for the overview of the shard chains in Ethereum, and an overview of proposing and attesting; from now, I assume the reader is familiar with those concepts).

The attestations on the beacon chain serve multiple purposes, two that are relevant for us are:

The attestations are used for the LMD (latest-message driven) fork choice rule that is used for blocks produced since the last block finalized by Casper;
The attestations are reused for Casper finalization itself (see the Casper FFG paper).
Unlike the previous proposals, all the ~400K validators rather than a sample participate in each Casper finalization. LMD still relies on samples of 1/64 of all the validators.

Update: make sure to read Vitalik’s response here, where he provides more details and clarifications.

The blocks on the beacon chain are produced every 16 seconds (increased from 8 seconds in a recent spec update), and Casper finalization happens every 100 blocks. This effectively means that every 16 seconds, 400K/64 participants create a multisignature on a block, and every ~26 minutes all 400K participants reach a byzantine consensus on a block.

Both sending 400K signatures over network and aggregating them is expensive. To make it feasible, the validators are split into committees. Assuming 400K participants, each committee consists of 4096 participants (with 1024 total committees). Each committee aggregates the BLS signature internally, and propagates it up to the whole validators set, where only the resulting combined signatures from the committees are aggregated into the final BLS signature. The validation of a BLS signature is rather cheap, along with computing an aggregated public key for the 400K validators. I personally estimate the most expensive part will be validating 4K signatures within each committee, but according to Vitalik that should be doable in a couple seconds.

Comparison
While Casper FFG, in practice, indeed provides almost zero forkfulness, there are a few reasons why we chose our consensus instead of adopting Casper FFG:

In Ethereum, the underlying block production mechanism relies on synchronized clocks; I will discuss problems with this reliance below when talk about shard chains;
Casper only finalizes blocks every 26 minutes. Blocks between such finalizations can theoretically have forks — the attestations do not provide theoretical guarantees, and even with ⅔ attestations on a block and less than ⅓ of malicious actors a block could be reverted;
Besides those reasons, NEAR aims to enable network operators to run nodes on mobile phones. To fully leverage the benefits of linear scalability that sharding provides, a blockchain network needs to have significantly more participating nodes than there are in any blockchain network existing today, and the ability to run nodes on (high end) mobile phones taps into a pool of hundreds of millions of devices. With Thresholded Proof of Stake, a participant on the beacon chain only needs to participate in a cheap consensus once per stake per day, while with Ethereum’s approach one would need to be constantly online, participating in heavy computations (validating thousands of BLS signatures every few seconds). Ethereum doesn’t target mobile devices as operating nodes, so for them, such a decision makes sense.

It is also important to note that the majority of participants on Ethereum will stake significantly more than 32ETH, and will thus participate in multiple committees, which might create some bottleneck on networking (a participant that staked 32000 ETH and thus participates in ~1000 committees will have to receive around 1000 x 4096 signatures every 16 seconds).

Overall, the main consideration for NEAR is the ability to run on low end devices, so we chose simpler and cheaper BFT consensus with small committees instead of running a consensus among all the validators. As a result, the beacon chain in NEAR Protocol can in theory have forks, and the rest of the system is designed to work without assuming that the beacon chain has zero forkfulness.

The Shard Chains
NEAR uses its own consensus called TxFlow for shard chains, while Ethereum 2.0 uses the proposers / attesters framework. While TxFlow provides byzantine fault-tolerant consensus under the assumption that less than ⅓ of nodes are malicious in each shard, such an assumption is completely unreasonable for a shard chain, for reasons discussed above.

With that assumption removed, TxFlow and Attestations have very similar properties: blocks are produced relatively quickly, and the probability of forks is reasonably small under normal operation. The major drawback of TxFlow is that it stalls if more than ⅓ of the participants are offline. Ethereum maintains liveness with any number of validators dropping out (though the speed of block production linearly degrades with fewer participants online).

On the other hand, Ethereum shard chains depend crucially on participants having synchronized clocks. The blocks are produced at a regular schedule (one every 8 seconds), and for the system to make progress, the clocks need to be synchronized with an accuracy of a few seconds. I personally do not believe that such synchronization is possible without depending on centralized time servers that become a single point of failure for the system. Also, the security analysis of possible timing attacks when there’s a dependency on a clock appears to be extremely complex.

At NEAR, we have a principled position to not have any dependency on synchronized clocks, and thus cannot use the proposers/attesters framework for the shard chains.

It is also worth mentioning that we are actively researching ways to adjust TxFlow in such a way that it maintains liveness when fewer than ⅔ of validators are online (naturally at an expense of higher forkfulness under such circumstances).

Outro
When designing complex sharded blockchains, many design decisions come down to choosing from multiple suboptimal solutions, such as choosing between centralization and forkfulness in the beacon chain.

We are working closely with Ethereum Foundation on sharding research, and both teams are aware of the pros and cons of different approaches. In this blog post I presented our thinking behind the decisions that differ in our design from Ethereum Serenity.

If you want to stay up to date with what we build at NEAR, use the following channels:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp, we have open conversations on tech, governance and economics of blockchain on our discord.
Our recently launched research forum — http://research.nearprotocol.com/
https://upscri.be/633436/

Huge thanks to Vitalik Buterin for providing detailed explanation on how the beacon chain in Ethereum Serenity works.
Keypom Brings Frictionless Onboarding to Near and Web3
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 23, 2023
A key roadblock to mass Web3 adoption is onboarding. People want to get into Web3 and crypto, but they don’t know how. Seed phrases, private keys, smart contract transactions, technical knowledge and crypto jargon are massive barriers to Web3 entry. 

With Keypom, that’s about to change. Keypom is a new zero friction onboarding protocol with a companion no-code app, built on Near. 

Now users, regardless of their background, can experience the value of Near’s blockchain technology whether or not they have a wallet. Envisioned as a community-driven, public good — or a public utility — Keypom’s APIs (the Keypom Protocol) will be completely fee-free. The Keypom App will also allow non-developers to take full advantage of Keypom’s powerful wallet-less onboarding experiences.

How Keypom’s frictionless onboarding works
Debuting at NEARCON 2022, Keypom’s onboarding solution is entirely on-chain and non-custodial. It’s  run completely on the Near blockchain via Near smart contracts  — not on any centralized databases.

Keypom allows Near and Web3 to function more like Web2, where developers and end-users alike can use applications without Web3’s usually confusing, tedious, time-consuming onboarding. For those looking to explore this technology, Keypom will offer an App, which is currently set to release at ETH Denver 2023. This app will give users and organizations the ability to easily create links to invite users to experience aspects of the Near blockchain without having to set up a wallet first.


On other blockchains, users are commonly onboarded with pre-created, pre-loaded wallets. Keypom operates on the basis of Near’s unique access key model, which allows for much more flexibility in the end user-experience. 

With Keypom, users are given a special type of access key that can be used to experience a crypto application and later be turned into a wallet. This key can be embedded within a simple Web2 style link that, once clicked, allows users to enter into a crypto experience, entirely on-chain and non-custodially. 

Currently, Keypom experiences include receiving $NEAR, NFTs, Tickets to an event, or even dropping the user into a trial account with Near tokens to spend on a preset selection of apps. Once a user has enjoyed an experience with a Keypom link, they can upgrade to a full account and enjoy the entire Near ecosystem.

For organizations that have experienced Keypom and choose to develop on top of their protocol, the Keypom SDK and Wallet Selector plugin allows for a seamless integration of Keypom’s technology into their own apps. Companies will be able to customize every aspect of the user experience to tailor their needs, all while using carefully designed plug-and-play libraries meant to abstract complicated processes for the developer. 

Low-cost, customizable linkdrops
Typically, linkdrops have been used to onboard developers and end-users looking to build on Near. The cost of creating 1,000 accounts via traditional means has been approximately 1,003 $NEAR. With Keypom, the costs for onboarding 1,000 users can fall to about 3.5 $NEAR. 

“We imagine a world where decentralized applications use the Keypom Protocol to create truly immersive user experiences and specialize in specific use-cases spanning across the entire ecosystem,” says Keypom’s Ben Kurrek. “Companies can build anything from event ticketing to subscription-based payments and multi-sig tooling. While the Keypom App would still allow for users to experience these use-cases, it would be at a much smaller scope.”

Keypom can be used, for instance, to automatically register users into a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) as part of the onboarding process. Another use case is for events ticketing. With Keypom, users wouldn’t need a wallet to enter an event, and would also be able to receive a POAP (Proof of Attendance Protocol) NFT.

Perhaps one of the most powerful use cases is the ability for applications to use the Keypom protocol to give their users a free trial. After choosing an account name, the user is instantly signed in and can begin exploring and experiencing the app. Just like with gift cards and other vouchers, the funds can only be used on that dApp thus preventing the possibility for a rug to occur. Once the trial is over, the user can onboard fully with the added option of a payback condition for the funds that the dApp fronted. 

In this new model, Keypom introduces a paradigm shift in Web3 where users experience crypto first and only focus on onboarding once they’ve seen the benefit and gained value.

“We leave it to those building atop the Keypom Protocol to specialize and create applications however they see fit, such as charging custom fees,” says Keypom’s Matt Lockyer. “We’ve created a world where there are no limits and we simply provide the technology that unlocks these experiences.”

For a full explanation on what is possible with Keypom’s customizable linkdrops, check out the Keypom Protocol README. Keypom developer documentation can be found here and Keypom Executive Summary here. 


A Developer’s Blockchain
DEVELOPERS
May 23, 2019
Progressive Cycles
The technology field has always operated in progressive cycles. Cyclical because it seems any new technology follows a pattern similar to previous technology, and “progressive” because each cycle informs the next, always moving forward. In this moment in history it seems that these cycles are happening faster each year.

If you’re not familiar, in this model there are “innovators” who start building things, “early adopters” who are excited before most people catch on, “early majority” who are getting involved right before peak adoption, “late majority” who are jumping on the bandwagon, and finally ”laggards” those who are begrudgingly forced to use the technology when it’s ubiquitous. Blockchain is no exception.

Currently, blockchain is in the hands of innovators. Right now, the innovators who decide whether technology takes over the world or fizzles into non-existence are programmers. Even as painful as it has been, there are programmers willing to build things anyways. This might be evidence that blockchain is at least important. It reminds me of the story of people willing to learn and write assembly code in order to program early computers, just because it was cool to them. Or even more like getting on the internet in the early days of web 1.0. Of course, there are those who believe it’s entirely hype!

The higher the barrier to entry, the more compelling (or hyped) the technology must be for people to give it a shot. Even so, for something to take off, that barrier eventually needs to come down. That’s what we’re doing at NEAR: lowering the barrier for developers to enter the blockchain space.

How to lower the barrier to entry
Every time it comes up in discussions, meetups or panels in the blockchain space, people are starkly aware that the current development experience is as unpleasant as the user experience. We’ll dig into each piece of the puzzle in more detail below. The most important first step is starting by removing unnecessary barriers.

The first interaction developing on blockchain should be pleasant, so we created a full feature online IDE. This allows people to run and deploy with one click and, importantly, it looks a lot like VS Code. Using just the online IDE, you can build an entire blockchain app from templates that give examples of the core functionality. A lot of the time, people end up spending more time on their frontends since the contracts are so simple to write.

Once someone is familiar with the general structure of the project, it makes sense if they can be quickly productive. That’s why our smart contracts are written in TypeScript. It’s approachable if someone comes from the ever growing JavaScript ecosystem or if they’re already familiar with another typed language.

Both the IDE and the choice to use TypeScript as the contract language removed the unnecessary barrier of unfamiliarity. There is no need to add complicated things to an already complicated concept. We want the cognitive load to be as small as possible when someone is starting out.

We’ve solved other problems as well and it started with a discussion of what problems we need to solve to keep lowering this barrier. It’s worth touring what it takes to build anything today.

The development lifecycle
There is one very necessary piece that needs to fall into place for the ecosystem to explode into the future where it takes over the world: the very basics of how apps are built should be available to developers who want to build on blockchain.

Currently the cycle of building a web 2.0 app looks something like this:

Prototype
User testing & verification
Robust version
Deployment
Support & Maintenance
Updating & Version management
How web 2.0 apps are built today in practice
Let’s start with a silly theoretical use case: Uber for dogs.

Say I’ve got a dog and I want to send them over to my friend’s house in a safe way. I suspect that other people feel the same, so I sit down at my favorite terminal, pull up my favorite IDE, and get cracking on the new industry standard serverless architecture with a completely separate frontend built in the server-side rendered frontend library of the day.

I’m feeling good, I’m hitting all the buzzwords in my npm packages. I have something ready to go in a day that allows a user to select a location on a map, and request a ride for their dog! I use one of the many quick-deploy options to get an obscure link to my running app. Great!

Now I’ve got the first round of validation. I need to build a more serious and stable version of the app. I take a couple weeks to figure out features, get some designs and flows down, and build my masterpiece: Ruff Riders, the premier app for dog sharing. Great!

In fact, each of the steps we’ve covered before have a robust solution and community support behind them. The point is, the process of creating and eventually maintaining any basic app that operates on entities in a database is extremely well explored now.

If you run into a problem in implementation, there is a Stack Overflow thread with copy and paste-able code. If you are trying to solve a problem with your deploy process, there is the whole field of DevOps to pull from and tons of resources and tools to help you. That’s the developer experience of building web 2.0.

How web 3.0 apps are built today
Round two in the developer experience (blockchain edition): Voting for dogs! Let’s imagine what it takes to get something up and running as a viable app.

I look at my auburn-haired Pomeranian, Teddy, and want to empower him to participate in the great utopian republic I envision. I suspect others feel the same way, so I sit down at my terminal and install… Wait. What package do I install for blockchain? I google search “how to program blockchain app.” The whole first page is taken up my paid results for “HyperLedger fabric” and Cornell’s online course… Okay… I click a blog post that looks legit. “How to build a distributed voting app” That’s exactly what I want to do! Great?

As I’m reading the blog post and it turns out I’ll need to learn a new programming language in order to start building. Hmmm. Not so great. I install some CLI tool that simulates a blockchain locally so that I can at least get started. I run it and it outputs a bunch of crazy looking strings to my terminal that all start with “0x.” Hmmm.

It takes a few days to figure all this out, but finally have a local version of the thing! I want to see if my Grandma’s dog Trinkles will participate in this beautiful future of empowered dogs. How do I do a quick deploy? I just have a prototype I want Trinkles to try.

I take a few hours to figure out how to deploy this to a “testnet” (by the way, what’s a testnet?) using new tools, like a browser extension based wallet. Wait, I was building an app. Why use a browser extension to choose configuration? I send the link to the frontend tying into my “smart contract” to my Grandma.

She calls.

“I think dogs should vote too! Trinkles wants to try the app you made,” she says.

“Great Grandma! I knew you would. It’s simple: first go to this website and install a browser-extension. That’s vital to the functioning of the app. Once you create an account, write down 12 words. Don’t lose these words Grandma. These are important words.” I say.

“Why are they..” she starts.

“I’m not done Grandma!” I interrupt, “then go to this thing called a faucet, where these things called tokens, are deposited into that thing you just installed in your browser called a wallet. That’s just for the testnet though, Grandma.”

“Now can I use your app?” she asks, timidly.

“No grandma. To use the fully functioning app, you should go on the main net and get an account on an exchange. All you have to do is sign up with an email and password, then verify your phone number, then attach your bank account, then wait a few days. While your waiting, you should verify your identity with a passport or driver’s license. Then you should pay real money to use the app. Buy some coins and HODL GRANDMA!” foam is dripping from my mouth as I finish.

“Why do I need to…” She starts.

“Bye Grandma, love you!” I hang up.

Grandma is having trouble using some of the basic parts of this thing to work. Not so great! I decide to fix some of the performance issues with the current best blockchain. I grow a beard and move to Hong Kong. All my money is now alt coins. Voting for dogs will have to wait.

(If you want to read more on our take on end-user blockchain useability, check this out)

We need to fix this for people to build real things
Exaggerations and joking aside, this is not too far off from my real experience building my first blockchain application. There were so many hurdles to overcome, the idea of a smooth ”code to deploy” process seemed ridiculous. Blockchain developers have learned all these tools and quirks and because of that, some of these crazy hiccups in getting real products shipped have become normalized. Mixed metaphors like ”a faucet” that flows “tokens” into a ”wallet” are unironically bandied as “the way it’s done.” What the hell are we even talking about?

I’m not advocating for changing terminology drastically, but it’s clear there are huge needs to be met for programmers who aren’t familiar with blockchain to be able to build any apps (let alone ones their grandma could use.) In the case of building tools, we don’t even need to get that creative. A good starting point is just emulating the great push for better developer tools in the web development ecosystem in the last ten years. When there is something like Ruby on Rails equivalent for Blockchain, there will be a huge influx of blockchain developers.

Remember, In a nutshell, these are the steps of developing Web 2.0 today.

Prototype
User testing & verification
Robust version
Deployment
Support & Maintenance
Updating & Version management
I’d add one more to this for blockchain specifically:

Integration into existing systems
Each of the steps of developing an app needs to be addressed. You can almost think of addressing each one as a unit test. Once all tests pass, then we are green on developer experience!

It should be easy to prototype and test.
We’re developing both an IDE and a CLI tool that each allow people to very quickly onboard without needing to learn a new language. Our contracts are written using TypeScript and integrates with a front end library that you can pull in from npm.

It should be smooth to do a quick deploy to test with friends to validate. 
We’re trying to solve this by hosting deploys at unique links. You can deploy from the online IDE with one click, or use one command to deploy from the CLI. Imagine heroku for blockchain. Or any other platform as a service.

It should not require a bunch of tangential steps to get your first users. 
Having end users download a browser extension and then go to a third party site to fund it leads to huge drops in conversion rate. This is a huge missed opportunity since blockchain could lead to a complete single sign on experience for users who are already familiar to them. We have a hosted wallet as a proof of concept for this. Whether we make it or not, there will be a wallet app that most people will use when blockchain becomes ubiquitous. it makes sense for this to be the main way accounts are handled.

It should be possible to build a version that is more robust
This requirement is relatively straightforward to define: for more than 10k users the system will stay up and be able to meet performance requirements. This is accomplished with proof of stake and sharding. This seems to be the direction most blockchains are headed and our team has built sharding in a regular database context before. That being said, this problem is still unsolved.

It should be as easy to version and maintain as maintaining an API.
This is also a yet unsolved problem. As more developers enter the space, the applications they create will grow and become more complex. People will solve their own problems and this will fill in the foundation of maintenance and versioning. I’ve got ideas about how versioning and maintenance should look, but I’m more excited for what people come up with to create even more efficient pipelines and deploy processes. Configuration objects with meta-information you can pass on deploy are just the start.

It should be easy to integrate with existing products and workflows
It’s happening already: existing teams and even big companies are looking longingly towards the bleeding edge that is blockchain. There is some defensiveness towards this, probably because people are worried about stuffy institutions. Maybe deeper is a fear that the newcomers are going to take away our warm fuzzy secret that makes us feel cool. I think it’s time to let them in. The more people that enter the space right now, the better tools get, the better ideas get, and more interesting projects get started.

More programmers, more projects, more pleasant experiences!
Hitting each of these points listed above will be vital to the survival of the ecosystem. At the end of the day, a good developer experience allows programmers to create a good user experience. There is going to be a moment in the future when someone’s grandma sends birthday money through a crypto wallet; not because it’s crypto or because it’s cool. They will do it because a developer was able to build an experience that was better than anything else out there. That’s the kind of watershed moment that blockchain needs to succeed.

If you’re interested in building the future of usability on blockchain, you should check out our online IDE at https://near.dev and consider contributing to our Github. Everything we develop is completely open source, including the design process, you can participate in our discord at https://near.chat.

https://upscri.be/633436/


NEAR & Gaming: Putting Gamers in the Driver’s Seat
COMMUNITY
August 17, 2022
Video games are portals to alternate realities. They are the means of escape for the more than three billion players worldwide who value the journey and experience of gameplay. Unfortunately, the journey through imaginative landscapes has been threatened by the prevalence of microtransactions and in-game currencies offering less and less to players. 

As industry-wide revenues are forecasted to surpass $200B in 2022, many gamers are looking for a more prominent voice in where and how they invest their time and money in virtual worlds. Blockchain and Web3 have thrown gas on the fire of gaming innovation with their underlying technology and the ease with which people can interact with each other on a global scale. 

Never before has there been as wide an array of platforms, developers, publishers, and gamers as exists now. Blockchains like NEAR have generated mass appeal in crypto gaming, boosted by incentives in play-to-earn mechanics. Players can now monetize their time and attention to find, craft, and seamlessly generate NFT assets of in-game digital items while establishing connections along the way. Self-governing inclusive communities in the form of decentralized autonomous organizations, or DAOs, serve as a foundation for gamers empowered to take on leadership roles. 

From arcade to massively multiplayer to casual mobile gaming, NEAR is powering the next generation of games through blockchain technologies like NFTs, DeFi, and DAOs, unlocking substantial rewards for players’ time invested. A radical transformation in gameplay, the Web3 approach gives power and control to the players. Beyond helming the controls, significant players in the gaming industry are truly putting gamers in the driver’s seat.

Building the future of gaming, one block at a time
OPGames, a Web3 arcade gaming platform, fuses the worlds of gaming and NFTs with a vision of revolutionizing game development and publishing. Their HTML5 arcade is a profound transformation in gameplay and development that shifts power to the players. OPGames’ developers utilize fractionalized NFTs to grant the community the ability to own a piece of the games they play. 

Arcadia, OPGames’ community-owned gaming universe, invites players to step into virtual worlds by discovering games, joining tournaments, and experiencing limitless gaming in entirely new ways. Their end-to-end solution promotes game discovery and seamless distribution in a novel way. 

Through collective ownership, gamers’ time and attention are effectively monetized through NFT price appreciation as any game grows in success. The OPGames DAO establishes a relationship between players and developers, with real dialogue about how the game evolves over time. Together, these facets combine to make the perfect toolbox for game developers to jump from Web2 to Web3.

The OPGames DAO gives the community a direct line of communication with game developers. This opens up dialogue on upcoming enhancements, new levels, or the latest in-game assets that players can buy, own, and trade through gameplay. Most gaming platforms lockdown digital collectibles in their ecosystem, but OPGames users are given the freedom to bring accomplishments and skins from other games. This model affords players more meaningful rewards for the time they invest in virtual worlds.

Arcadia is an inclusive gaming universe that lowers the barriers of game ownership and truly serves as a platform for everyone. Gamers, game creators, and communities alike can share fun experiences through an ever-expanding roster of games with an ecosystem feature set that continues to evolve.

A GameFi ecosystem for the players, by the players
Vorto Gaming is a prominent blockchain gaming company with a mission of creating a new gaming economy owned by the players. Vorto Network’s marketplace allows users to browse, buy, sell, and trade NFTs and other in-game assets. Their “the more you play, the more you earn” model empowers players to monetize their time and attention to find, craft, and generate NFT assets of in-game digital items. 

Hash Rush, the first title launched on the Vorto Network, is a massively multiplayer real-time strategy game featuring play-and-earn mechanics. By establishing Crypto Crystal mining colonies, players play-to-earn as they mine, complete quests, and defeat enemies. Through tokenization and P2P trading, the gaming industry’s status quo model is flipped. “Instead of players working for the game, the game should work for them,” says CEO Kris Vavoids.

In early 2022, Vorto revealed an exclusive partnership with Gold Town Games in developing a blockchain cricket game, Cricket Star Manager. Inspired by sports simulation titles and play-to-earn games, Cricket Star Manager lets players create their own cricket team and compete for the highest title in their country. For the first time, the cricket community has an opportunity to earn real money from their passion through gaming.

Vorto has created a platform that allows gamers to easily manage their digital game items, whether collecting, selling, or trading. Their APIs allow game studios access to item creation, inventory management, and transaction reporting, while gamers benefit from an online storefront with a peer-to-peer marketplace. Not only does this bring an unprecedented level of autonomy to gamers, but it also puts them in control of their achievements and virtual legacy on and off the platform.

Bringing Web3 fun to Web2 games
playEmber is bringing Web3 to the hyper-casual and casual gaming space, with ambitions to onboard at least one million new crypto gamers. The first wave of play-to-earn games were lousy offerings, or as CEO Hugo Furneaux bluntly says, “a bit crap.” 

“Rather than fun games, they seemed to be reverse engineered gamified staking platforms, giving the player a sub-optimal gaming experience,” he adds.

playEmber’s player-centric focus is rooted in three tenants: fun, interoperability, and ownership. They recognize that if the main target is to earn, the core of gaming’s appeal–escapism through joy and pure fun–is lost. 

“We think that is key to putting gamers back in the driving seat,” says Furneaux. “It shouldn’t be a job, it should be a passion.”

By bringing blockchain gaming to existing mobile gamers, their everyday experience is enhanced by enabling the interoperability of game assets. Players have power by playing multiple games with the same avatar and storing and trading their game achievements and progress. For gaming studios, a new audience of Web3 gamers is unlocked without the complexities of worrying about core elements like smart contracts, tokens, and NFTs.

Players make substantial investments in virtual worlds with their time and resources. As such, gamers should retain ownership of the characters, weapons, avatars, and NFTs they’ve invested and improved upon. For playEmber, this is non-negotiable. Their OG NFT collection partners with many of the top NEAR collections that allow followers to play, earn, reward, and compete in thousands of mobile games. 

CMO Jon Hook says that a key focus is an ongoing commitment to greater inclusivity and governance within the greater community. “We are looking forward to welcoming key strategic studio partners into our DAO to inform and decide future product developments,” he says. 

Having a seat at the table is a powerful and exciting way to empower players to control their future.

Leveling up Web3 gaming on NEAR
Thanks to NEAR’s robust framework and infrastructure, gaming in the Web3 era is limited only by the collective imaginations of developers and players. NEAR’s robust, stable, and feature-rich blockchain also achieves a level of energy efficiency and impact unheard of in other blockchains. Its scaling technology divides computation across parallel “shards,” which optimize the already super cheap, high-speed, and outstandingly secure platform. So with NEAR, developers now have the toolkit to level up worldbuilding and gameplay experiences.  

Extremely versatile, DAOs are one component of NEAR’s commitment to facilitating the network’s decentralization to a worldwide creative community and beyond. Through their democratic, flexible, and collaborative foundations, DAOs empower like-minded individuals to come together and decide how the gameplay journey will unfold. 

Building the next hit Web3 game on NEAR is possible through supporting documentation and open source repositories available to all. Any developer can build on existing concepts and choose different elements to get their next idea from concept to fruition. And a low barrier to entry for developers, creators, and players translates to massive exposure and accessibility to the global gaming community.

As gamers are put in the driver’s seat in the era of Web3, the industry’s development and evolution know no limits on the road ahead. 


NEAR FastAuth Competition Terms and Conditions
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 31, 2023
Introduction:
The following terms and conditions (the “Terms”) govern the use of the NEAR Foundation Fast Auth Competition (the “Competition”) provided by NEAR Foundation (“we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”). By participating in the Competition, you (“you” or “Participant”) agree to be bound by these Terms. If you do not agree to these Terms, you may not be eligible to participate in the Competition or receive any rewards. For more information on FastAuth, please visit the link here. 

Eligibility:
The Competition is available only to individuals who are at least 18 years old. By participating in the Competition, you represent and warrant that you are at least 18 years old.

Participation in the Competition:
We are excited to provide NEAR users with the ability to win, you acknowledge and agree that any information you provide may be used by us in connection with the Competition. To participate, users must follow these steps: 

Participants must submit a video of their screen while opening a NEAR wallet using FastAuth. The video should be in the form of a screen recording. All videos must be legible and any sensitive information can be blacked out. 
The Participant must submit the video to their personal Twitter account using the hashtags #FastAuthTimeTrial and #NEARistheBOS by June 9th, 13:00 UTC.
Videos submitted after the deadline will not be accepted. 
The time taken to open the wallet, will be taken into consideration. 
Winners will be notified via Twitter and announced on the Near social media channels on June 12th.
Competition Prize:
Five Selected winners will be announced and contacted via email. The Competition prize consists of: 100 NEAR tokens for each winner. 

5. Disclaimer:

The Prize is awarded ‘as is’ and without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including without limitation any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The Competition organizers and affiliated companies make no representations or warranties regarding the prize or its use and are not responsible for any claims arising out of or in connection with the prize or its use. The Competition event and prizes are solely sponsored and organized by us, and any reference to third-party companies or organizations is for informational purposes only. 

Limitation of Liability:
The Competition organizers, sponsors, and affiliated companies are not responsible for any injury, loss, or damage to property or person, including death, arising out of participation in the Competition or use or misuse of the prize.

Intellectual Property:
The Service, including all content provided by the expert(s) or other participants, is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. You may not reproduce, distribute, or create derivative works from any content provided by the Service without our prior written consent.

Modification of Terms:
We reserve the right to modify these Terms at any time without notice. Your continued use of the Service following any changes to these Terms constitutes your acceptance of the revised Terms.

Governing Law:
These Terms and your use of the Service are governed by the laws of Switzerland without regard to its conflict of laws provisions.

Dispute Resolution:
Any disputes arising out of or in connection with these Terms or the Service will be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Switzerland Arbitration Association.

Entire Agreement:
These Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and us with respect to the Competition and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral.

Contact Information:
If you have any questions or comments about these Terms, please contact us at [email protected].


Open sourcing NEAR client
DEVELOPERS
November 28, 2018
Today we are open sourcing the main code base of the NEAR Protocol client. You can start exploring code on GitHub right now.

It’s the first milestone in our plan to build a decentralized future. From my previous experience at Google with open sourcing projects (ScikitFlow, TensorFlow), the earlier a project opens the source code, the easier it is to build a truly open source community around it.

Our grand vision of making crypto and blockchain accessible to billions of people starts with a more intuitive UX for both end users and developers. While end-user experience is an important topic, today we’ll focus on developer experience. The tools we’re building are the first step in addressing this.

Our aim for open sourcing the code today is two-fold:

Start iterating on developer experience with real developers;
Enable collaborations with external developers who would be interested in contributing to the client development or ecosystem;
In this post, I’ll briefly describe what is included, how it fits into the bigger picture and how you can get involved.

Typescript
We are using TypeScript as the main programming language, which makes it easy for anyone with a background in JavaScript to build smart contracts. Also, this allows developers to test smart contracts with familiar JavaScript tools.

Near Studio
Building and testing ERC-20 contract in NEAR Studio
We are building a lightweight web-based IDE — NEAR Studio (github), where one can try building smart contracts now. We’ve provided an example fiddle of an ERC-20 contract that you can play with right now. Share your fiddles with us on Discord.

DevNet
Running DevNet and interacting via RPC interface
As the backend to NEAR Studio, we provide a “DevNet”, which is a stripped-down version of the NEAR node that only runs WebAssembly and State Transition without running consensus/networking. This is an analog of the Ganache project in Ethereum. See how to run and use DevNet here.

We are going to add more documentation in the next few days about how to use NEAR Studio and DevNet together to test deploying and transacting with your smart contracts.

If you are interested in the consensus layer or how the NEAR Protocol works overall, feel free to dive deeper into the code. Currently, we have just a minimal amount of architecture in place to facilitate contributions. You can also learn more about our consensus on research portal: Informal spec to TxFlow and Beacon Chain consensus spec.

Upcoming Milestones
Now that codebase is open we are going to be diligent about reporting current progress and upcoming milestones through GitHub issues and Community Updates.

We split our future development into three major milestones:

DevNet: complete developer experience for our blockchain. We are progressing on this milestone pretty well, but there is still more work to be done.
“Minimum Viable Blockchain” (MVB): a fully functioning blockchain that can provide a platform for running experiments on governance, economics and user experience. This version will only have a Beacon chain consensus.
Shard chains: adding sharding of state and processing to MVB.
Even though the release of these milestones is ordered, we are working on them in parallel.

Get Started
Developers, we encourage you to identify problems in the blockchain space you are most interested in (scalability, usability for developers or consumers, etc) and start working on that. The easiest way to start is to join our Discord or create a discussion issue on Github. Or simply find a bug in our code and fix it 🙂

PS. Note on the license. It is currently GPL v3 because of usage of Substrate components. Parity promised to switch the license to Apache v2 when they release POC v3 in a few months. Thus we will update as well to Apache v2 at that moment.

If you want to stay up to date with what we build at NEAR, use the following channels:

Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol,
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp, we have open conversations on tech, governance and economics of blockchain on our discord.
Lastly, please subscribe to our newsletter.

Thanks to Ash Egan, Erik Trautman and Bowen Wang for comments on the draft of this post.


So what exactly is Vlad’s Sharding PoC doing?
DEVELOPERS
October 8, 2018
I had a chance to work with Vlad Zamfir and Aditya Asgaonkar on the continuation of Vlad’s Berlin hack this weekend.

Now I can shed some light on what his prototype was actually showcasing in Berlin, what it was not, what was built in SF, and how it all works under the hood.

Image by @ETHSanFrancisco used with their permission
The Proof of Concept (PoC) comprises an implementation of a hierarchical sharding protocol, messaging and message routing between shards, and cross-shard transactions on top of the messaging protocol that guarantees the impossibility of finalization of atomicity failures. More specifically, if a transaction touches multiple shards, it will ultimately either be finalized on all of them, or be orphaned on all of them. The PoC is not yet concerned with Proof of Stake (in particular, it doesn’t implement Casper CBC), wallet or light client.

We published and open sourced the code. Here’s the link to the last commit as of the time we presented the demo (it lacks some visualization improvements that Vlad has locally).

The core component of the PoC is a fork choice rule. It needs to be designed in such a way that for any message sent between two blocks in two shards, either both blocks are in the chosen forks in their corresponding shards, or neither is.

Vlad built the initial fork choice rule between two shards while at Berlin hackathon. The goal for the Eth SF hackathon was twofold: a) extend it to an arbitrary number of shards with arbitrary configuration and b) build messages routing, so that if one shard wants to send a message to another shard that is not its neighbor, it can send the message along the path in the shards hierarchy, the message will be properly routed, and the atomicity guarantees are still satisfied.

The stretch goal was to also design dynamic topology rebalancing to reduce traffic in the network. For example, if it is found that some shards that are a few hops away from each other send a lot of messages to each other, the topology will be adjusted so that those shards are closer to each other.

Here’s our whiteboard’s photo after Vlad’s initial explanation:

It contains some core ideas: parent-child relationship and messaging between shards (the two blockchains at the top left, and two at the middle left), the structure of a block, and how the shards hierarchy can be changed (demonstration on the right).

Let’s dive in into how the fork choice rule, message routing, and dynamic rebalancing are implemented, and what challenges they present.

Fork choice rule
Let’s for now assume a static hierarchy of the shards, and only consider two shards. Each block in each shard is defined by

The shard ID;
A link to the previous block in the shard;
The ID of the parent shard;
The IDs of the child shards;
sent log: A map that maps a neighbor shard ID to a list of messages that have been sent to the neighbor shard ID from any block in the current shard prior to or including this block;
received log: A similar map from shard ID to messages received from other shards;
source map: A map from shard ID to the last block known to the block producer in the corresponding shards, according to the fork choice rule.
The maps in (5) and (6) contain each message in the following format:

Target shard ID; Note that this shard ID is not necessarily the same as the key in the map (either sent log or received log) the entry is associated with. The key is the neighbor shard from which or to which the message is directly sent while the Target shard ID is the final destination of the message.
Target block, or base (each message has a specific block it is sent to in its target shard);
TTL — the maximum distance from the block that will ultimately include the message to the base block;
Payload
On the figure above time goes from left to right, so A1 and B1 are the genesis blocks. On all the figures in this write-up, the timeline in each shard is independent.

There’s a message in the sent log of block A2 that has B2 as its base. That, in particular, means that B2 already existed by the time A2 was published. While not shown on the figure, the message is also stored in the sent log of blocks A3 and A4, and all the future blocks that have A2 in their chain. The message was received at B3 and thus is also in the received log of all blocks that have B3 in their chain.

The shards have a hierarchy, so each shard has a parent except for one, which is the root shard. We assume on the figure above that Shard #1 is the parent of Shard #2.

Observe that there is a fork in shard #2, and so the fork choice rule would kick in to decide on what chain is the accepted chain. The fork choice rule works in the following way: if a shard doesn’t have a parent (like shard #1), then a regular GHOST rule is applied.

Otherwise, first messages that are inconsistent with the selected chain on the parent shard are filtered out, and then the GHOST is run on the messages that are left. You can find all the rules for filtering out messages in the method is_block_filtered in fork_choice.py, but some important rules are:

If in the parent shard there’s a block on the selected chain that sends a message to the child chain, any block that is further than TTL blocks in the future from the base block of the message and still doesn’t have the message in the received log is filtered out. On the figure above blocks B4’, B5’ and B6’ are all filtered out, because the message that targets B2 is not in their received logs, and they are all 2 or more blocks away from B2. After the messages are filtered out, GHOST is executed, and the chain with B5 at its tip is chosen as it is now the longer chain.
If a block on the child shard sent a message to some block that is on the selected chain in the parent shard, and such message is not received within TTL blocks on the parent chain, the block on the child chain gets filtered out.
Any block on the child shard that sends or receives messages to/from a block in the parent shard that is not on the selected chain is filtered out.
Note that blocks are always filtered out in the child shard, no matter in what direction the message that causes the filtering goes.

There are also some rules on what blocks are considered to be valid, those can be found in method is_valid in blocks.py. Most notably, a message on the parent shard cannot attempt to send a message to the child shard that would result in filtering out some blocks from which other blocks in the chain on the parent shard have received messages. Neither can two messages in a sent log target two blocks in the same child shard such that neither block is in the chain of the other.

On the figure above blocks A3’ and A4’ are not published yet. The block A2’ is not on the selected chain in Shard #1, since the chain with a tip at A3 is longer. Thus B2 that sends a message with the base block A2’ is filtered out. However, once A3’ and A4’ get published, for as long as at least one of them contains the message from B2 in their received log, B2 will reappear on the selected chain in the child shard.

From the rule (3) in the definition of the fork choice above it follows that a single message from a parent shard that has as its base a block that is not presently on the selected chain in the child chain can trigger a cascading effect of many blocks being filtered out. In the extreme case, if a message uses the genesis block as its base, all the descendant shards will get all the blocks filtered out. This is prevented by the fact that some messages are sent between the child and the parent shard, and as mentioned above it is illegal to publish a message that would result in filtering out a block from which a message was received or to which a message was sent in any block in the chain.

The fork choice rule above is at the core of atomic transactions. A transaction originates at some shard and sends a message to some other shard, and because of the rules above either a block that sends the message and a block that receives the message are finalized or no block that sends the message and no block that receives the message are finalized. Finalization of an atomicity failure is impossible.

Messages routing
Everything up to here is what Vlad built in Berlin. The EthSF project started from generalizing the setup to arbitrary shards configuration. Then we built messages routing. In the original idea, Vlad assumed that each block is extended with a routing table that contains the next hop for each destination shard, but we got convinced that it is not needed since it can be recomputed realtime from parent and children shard IDs and the source map.

For as long as the topology of shards is static, the idea is rather straightforward: every message contains a target shard ID. A block is only considered valid if, for every new message in the received log that doesn’t have the current shard as its target shard, there’s a corresponding new message in the sent log that is sent to the next hop on the way to the target shard.

Importantly, from the fact that for every message it is guaranteed that either both the source and destination blocks are finalized or neither is finalized it follows that for a multi-hop sequence of messages either all the blocks the messages go through are eventually finalized or none is finalized.

On the figure above the dotted blocks do not exist yet. At some point in the past a message from C2 was sent to shard 2 through shard 1, was received at A3’ (at which point A3’ was on the selected chain, meaning that A4 didn’t exist yet), and immediately forwarded to shard 2, where it was ultimately received at B3. Then A4 was published on shard 1 making A3’ not be on the selected chain any longer. Once this happened, the selected chain on shard 2, which had B3 as its selected tip before, now has B2 as its selected tip, since B3 receives a message from a block not on the selected chain of its shard. Similarly, C2 and C3 are not on the selected chain in shard 3 any longer, and the entire selected chain on shard 3 now consists of just the genesis block C1.

As B3’ gets published and sends a message to shard 3, it gets rerouted via shard 1. In the example above A5 routes it, and C2’ receives. At this point B3’, A5 and C2’ are all on their selected chains. If a couple more blocks get published on top of A3’, then A5 will get orphaned, and with it will B3’ and C2’, while B3, C2, and C3 will now become the selected chains. Importantly, as this happens, at any given instance of time from the perspective of any observer the following is true:

Either all C2, A3’ and B3 are in the selected chains of their shards, or none is (and thus either both hops of the message are acknowledged, or both are not);
Either all B3’, A5 and C2’ are in the selected chains of their shards, or none is.
Dynamic rebalancing
Message routing was finished rather early, and we started working on the dynamic rebalancing. There are three operations that, if all supported, enable reconfiguring from any configuration to any other configuration.

To prove it one can show that using the latter two operations it is always possible to convert any configuration into a configuration in which each shard except for one has exactly one child, then an arbitrary permutation can be applied using the first operation, and that all operations are reversible.

In this PoC we only implemented the second operation, that moves one immediate child of a shard to become a child of another immediate child of the same shard.

I do not have a formal proof in my head that dynamic rebalancing doesn’t cause any fundamental problems with the fork choice rule, and started building it having only a simple intuition that the messages that the parent shard sends to its children have the same atomicity guarantees as any other message, and thus either ultimately the reconfiguration is committed, or rolled back.

Consider a parent shard A that moves its child B to become a child of its another child C. In practice the first obstacle was that once A publishes a block that sends the rebalancing messages to B and C, it doesn’t recognize B as its immediate child any longer, but until C has received the message neither does C. Thus if a message that targets B arrives to any block on A without having a routing table, the source map with parent and child IDs is not sufficient to route the message. At the same time, rerouting such messages to shard C is safe, since it will not arrive to C (won’t appear in the received log) until the block that has the message with the instruction to accept B as a child in its received log.

We addressed the issue of not having sufficient information to route to shard C by introducing the routing table into each block, and Vlad was very happy that he called out the necessity to have the routing table early on.

The second challenge is that in the absence of rebalances the fork choice rule would start from the root shard, and traverse the shards down, using the tip and the selected chain found in the parent shard to filter out messages in the child shard. With dynamic rebalancing, the parent-child relationship is not defined globally anymore. In the current prototype, we compute the tip and the selected chain for the parent shard separately for each block. It doesn’t affect the runtime too much due to caching of the results, but would cause problems if after few reorganizations we end up in a situation in which during some time frame some shard A was the parent of B, and during some other time frame B was the parent of A. With the current implementation it would result in an infinite loop. Vlad presumably found some modification to the fork choice rule that doesn’t suffer from this problem, but he explained it to me at 3:00 am, while I was debugging some consistency violations, so I would lie if I say I understood his idea well. He almost built it though in the morning and it looked promising but didn’t finish fixing all the bugs before the demo, so we went with my infinite loop-prone fork choice rule.

From committing the first implementation of the rebalancing in the evening until almost 6 am there was a lot of debugging and pain figuring out the interaction between the fork choice rule and the rebalancing code and improving the visualization (did I mention that we had an absolutely gorgeous visualizer?), but ultimately rerouting, rebalancing and the visualizer were the core of the PoC.

How to play with it
To run the demo just invoke simulator.py with python3. The only dependencies are numpy, networkx and matplotlib, so no need to run the Dockerfile from the README.

When you run the simulation, you will see something like this:

On the left is the shard topology, and on the right are blockchains in each shard, aligned the same way as the topology on the left (so on the screenshot above the topmost blockchain is shard 0, the two below it are 1 and 2, and the bottommost one is 7).

When you launch it, shards 3 and 4 will be both children of 1, but quickly a rebalancing will happen that will move 3 to become the child of 1. For a split second, you will also see 3 being in some quantum state, that is visualizer being confused by no shard reporting 3 as their child during the time between 1 sending the message and 4 receiving it.

The thick green lines within each shard represent the selected chain.

The thick colored arrows between shards are messages being received. We configured the demo to always send messages between shards 3 and 7 so that as many hops as possible are made, you can disable it be setting RESTRICT_ROUTING to False in config.py.

The thick black arrows are messages with the rebalancing request. In this demo, they will always go from shard 1 to shards 3 and 4.

You can also significantly speed up the demo by setting VALIDITY_CHECKS_OFF to True.

Sometimes (though rather rarely) you will see the think messages lines becoming thin. That means that the blocks with the message were orphaned. For a particular message, you will always either see all its lines think or all thin. It follows from the guarantee that atomicity failure is never finalized, and is never observed from a perspective of any observer at any time. An example of thin lines is the rightmost messages on the screenshot above from shard 7 to shard 6. They are received by a block on shard 6 that is not on the selected chain.

Footnote: If you play with it, it is also worth mentioning that the visualizer has a bug that sometimes shows the message destination incorrectly. It is because the same message can be received by multiple blocks on multiple competing chains, and the visualizer will render the arrows all point at the same block, sometimes resulting a thick line pointing at an orphaned block.

What’s next for the project
If Vlad is right and the fork choice rule does work with dynamic rebalancing, it would provide a foundation to build a sharded blockchain protocol with atomic cross-shard transactions and adaptive topology that adjusts to reduce the number of hops messages traverse on average, while maintaining a reasonable number of neighbors per shard.

We will continue hacking it to support all three rotations and arbitrary rebalances, and then I personally plan to thoroughly test it to increase my own confidence that the fork choice rule works with rebalances. Once that is done, Vlad will hopefully release a formal spec, and anyone in the community will be able to implement it.

So that’s what NEAR will be building now?
While I personally plan to continue working on the PoC, NEAR sharding design won’t use the fork choice rule, messages routing or dynamic rebalancing discussed above. NEAR’s primary goal is to create almost real-time cross-shard transactions while keeping clients sufficiently light that any low-end device can run a node that operates (a part of) the network and processes (a subset of) the transactions. Despite the beauty of Vlad’s design, it doesn’t fit naturally into the architecture we built on top of.

We just started publishing posts on NEAR’s research portal. For the most recent development, read this write-up on our sharded chain consensus algorithm “TxFlow”.

To follow our progress you can use:

NEAR Twitter — https://twitter.com/nearprotocol
My Twitter — https://twitter.com/AlexSkidanov
Discord — https://discord.gg/kRY6AFp,
https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Ecosystem Kicks Up a Sandstorm at TOKEN2049 Dubai
COMMUNITY
April 4, 2024
After making waves at last year’s Singapore edition, we’re turning up the heat for TOKEN2049 in Dubai, the city that’s rapidly becoming a hotbed for Fintech and AI innovation. This year, the NEAR ecosystem is buzzing with excitement to introduce discussions on chain abstraction and spotlight some of our most dynamic projects, including Calimero, Sweat Economy, and Aurora, to the forefront of the global tech scene.

Tech, Coffee, & Bubbles!
By day, make your way to our booth to engage with the NEAR collective and the visionaries from Calimero, Sweat Economy, and Aurora. Unpack the ways we’re transforming the Web3 space with breakthroughs in chain abstraction, data availability, frameworks for building decentralized application protocols, and Blockchain as a Service (BaaS). Indulge in the flavors of traditional Arabic coffee and pick up the hottest swag.
Yet, the experience doesn’t stop at coffee.
As the enthusiastic sponsor of TOKEN2049 Dubai’s closing party, NEAR is preparing an unforgettable evening. Anticipate a gala filled with select champagne and spirits, celebrating the milestones and fellowship of the Web3 community.

Can’t-Miss Speaking Engagements

At TOKEN2049 Dubai, NEAR Protocol is diving into the conversations that are shaping the future of Web3. We’re kicking things off with a panel on “AI x Web3: Pioneering Decentralized Intelligence,” featuring NEAR’s own Illia Polosukhin alongside experts like Ahmad Shadid from io.net, Niraj Pant of Ritual, Sean Ren of Sahara, and moderated by Tarun Chitra of Gauntlet. They’ll unpack the exciting crossroads of AI and Web3 in fostering decentralized intelligence. Then, don’t miss our fireside chat, “Sweat Economy’s Billion-User Blueprint for Scaling Consumer Crypto Apps,” where Chris Donovan, COO of NEAR Foundation and Oleg Fomenko, Co-founder & CEO of  Sweat Economy open up about their ground-breaking collaboration.

Swing by our booth for a firsthand look at how NEAR is redefining norms with chain abstraction, data availability, and more—all powered by a healthy dose of caffeine.

TOKEN2049 is gearing up to be a dynamic assembly featuring the forefront of Web3 innovation, an event you won’t want to miss. For updates on our activities, side events, and speakers, please visit our Lu.ma page and the TOKEN2049 landing page!
NEAR and Circle Announce USDC Support for Multi-Chain Ecosystem 
COMMUNITY
September 28, 2022
Big news coming out of the Converge22 conference in San Francisco this week. Circle Internet Financial, a global digital fintech firm and the issuer of USD Coin (USDC), announced a partnership with NEAR that will make USDC widely available on the NEAR ecosystem by the end of 2022. 

Having USDC on NEAR is definitely a reason to celebrate. Circle will also make USDC available on other platforms to support a multi-chain ecosystem.

Powering NEAR developers 
Bringing USDC to NEAR will help empower developers to integrate stablecoin payments flows into their Javascript and Rust-based decentralized applications. This will unlock a new wave of accessibility for Web2 builders moving into Web3. It will also serve a vital role in NEAR’s mission of Web3 mass adoption, while helping developers build without limits.

“The multi-chain expansion increases USDC’s native availability from eight ecosystems to thirteen, and enables blockchain developers building on USDC and their users to experience greater liquidity and interoperability within the crypto economy,” said Joao Reginatto, VP of Product at Circle. “Extending multi-chain support for USDC opens the door for institutions, exchanges, developers and more to build their innovations and have easier access to a trusted and stable asset.” 

Bringing USDC to NEAR is a big win for developers, who will now be able to integrate stablecoin payment flows into Javascript or Rust-based dApps. This will help usher in a new wave of accessibility for Web 2 builders making the shift to Web3.

What to know about stablecoins
A stablecoin is simply a cryptocurrency that is “pegged” to a more traditional currency like USD or EURO. Through various treasury and/or collateral models, they are designed to keep a 1:1 value, or parity, with their pegged counterparts. Stablecoins can also be pegged to credit and/or debt or have no collateral at all, as seen in algorithmic stablecoins. 

Their presence in the Web3 ecosystem brings a sense of familiarity for natives and newcomers alike. A stablecoin is also a sort of on-ramp to understanding token economics—the gas that powers Web3 and beyond. 

While designed to reduce cryptocurrency volatility, stablecoins present their own set of risks. When centralized, stablecoins can be victims of hacks, theft, or even over-printing which can lead to hyperinflation. If an algorithmic stablecoin experiences algorithmic failure, as happened with Terra and its sister currency, Luna, the stablecoin can fail. If a stablecoin is fractionally reserved instead of fully backed, there can be a bank run that triggers a dramatic stablecoin price drop. 
Music and Blockchain: The Rise of the New Musician
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 18, 2022
New music tools and platforms are popping up on blockchains, like NFTs, music software, Metaverse gatherings, and decentralized streaming platforms. With them, a new type of musician is coming into focus. One exploring novel creative technologies and more equitable revenue streams—on their own terms. 

How exactly are musicians navigating Web3 in 2022? Let’s take a closer look at what’s happening on NEAR, where musicians are finding a fast, low cost, and secure blockchain, and an ecosystem of decentralized apps to power their Web3 journey.  

New musicians on the blockchain 
NEAR x Music (NxM), a guild for musicians and community-building, operates right at the center of blockchain music. Members are already witnessing musicians working in Web3 in several different ways. 

Beyond minting NFTs, musicians are using Cryptovoxels, NEARhub, and other virtual or Metaverse spaces for live gatherings. In some cases, musicians use these spaces for music videos and other content. 

“There is also more opportunity for musicians to sell their merchandise and music directly to their fan bases rather than depending on platforms as an intermediary,” the NxM Council says. “The blockchain allows you to see who is interacting with and collecting your work.”

Musicians in muti, a creative collective and DAO based in Portugal, are very active on NEAR. Apart from minting audiovisual NFTs, they promote each other’s music and stream original music and DJ sets through their Mutiverse on NEARHub. 

“We are working in the digital and physical spaces,” says muti’s Tabea, noting that the collective often organizes events in nature and other non-urban areas. “As NEAR and its platforms develop tools, we’re experimenting with how to integrate the digital with the physical—ticketing, streams from nature into the Metaverse, utility NFTs, etc.”

But, not all musicians are trying to shift the industry paradigm. Some established artists simply want to explore new content distribution and revenue channels. 

“Artists are taking advantage of opportunities in Web3 to ride the wave in parallel with whatever they’re already doing in Web2,” says Vandal, founder of DAORecords, a label founded on NEAR.

Origin is a musician and active community member of Amplify.Art, decentralized music platform currently building on NEAR. He points to Cryptopunk rapper Spottie WiFi, real name Miguel Mora, as an artist completely committed to blockchain music. Like David Bowie’s Ziggy Stardust or Damon Albarn’s cartoon band Gorillaz, Mora’s Spottie WiFi persona is an artistic avatar. A cryptovoxel purpose-built for Web3, Spottie WiFi partakes inNFT releases and Metaverse performances.  

Other artists, like Emily Lazard, FiFi Rong, and even Deadmau5—who released the NFT single “this is fine” on NEAR—already have sizable followings. For them, Web3 helps grow their audiences and revenue. 

“What’s most attractive about Web3 is the independence and control to do whatever you want,” says Origin. “What’s so interesting and exciting is the way you could combine any artform, be it poetry, sculpture, photography, video, graphic design, music, and spoken word into an NFT.”  

Like other musicians exploring music NFTs, Origin is excited about the opportunity to earn more per release. With Web3, one neeedn’t make homogenous music just to get millions of streams. 

Building and using music software 
Musicians will also find new blockchain music software on Web3. And if they have the developer chops, they can design it. 

Chiptune musician and developer Peter Salomensen developed WebAssembly Music, a live coding music and synthesizer in Javascript/AssemblyScript (WebAssembly) on NEAR. With WebAssembly Music, Salomensen has minted music NFTs and made them remixable. He also released a piano roll interface for short, editable music NFTs, on which musicians can create and publish their own music. 

Endlesss, a Digital Audio Workstation (DAW), gives musicians the instruments and tools to produce music collectively. Founder and developer Tim Exile, a former Warp Records music producer, is on a mission to unbundle music from a product produced by professionals and consumed by the masses. 


With the Endlesss app (iOS, MacOS, Windows), music becomes a collective journey. Musicians collaborate live or asynchronously in “Jams”. Think of them as “musical chat groups” in which participants create, share, and remix short bits of songs called “Rifffs”, short bits of songs. Artists share Rifffs that musicians or even fans can then remix and sample, which evolve over time like a musical exquisite corpse. 

“That’s why we built Endlesss—to be collaborative and real-time so that it’s conversational,” says Exile. “Every step along anyone’s musical journey from creation, to curation, to discovery, to listening is one that brings you into contact with people.” 

Call it the gamification of music collaboration and remix culture. As Exile notes, games aren’t prescriptive. Each level or an entire game can be completed in any number of ways, which is the goal of Endlesss..

“As you jam together, you build an entire history of everything that happened in that jam,” Exile explains. “So, it’s music creation as storytelling because as the jam evolves you listen to how the music evolves.”

“The first thing we’re building on NEAR is to share those Jams with an audience or other creators, and allow people to collect individual Rifffs as NFTs,” Exile adds. 

In the future, Vandal expects tighter integration between music software and blockchain platforms. DAWs that could, for instance, export music files directly as minted NFTs. 

“You could even mint the stems when you click ‘master’,” says Vandal. “I’ve seen a few products out there shifting over to Web3, and it’s going to be great as a creator when it’s all integrated into the hardware..” 

One Endlesss community member even created a hardware controller for the music software. While it’s a proof-of-concept, it demonstrates how hardware could be integrated with blockchain software. 

Reinventing remix culture and collaboration
The “Amen break,” a drum break found in countless 20th and 21st century recordings, is perhaps the most famous sample in music history. Best estimates suggest it has appeared on at least 5,500 songs. And yet the drummer who laid down the track, “G. C.” Coleman, a member of the 60s funk and soul band The Winstons, never got a penny from it. Coleman is a cautionary tale of sampled works: that while sampling can lead to great artistic works, the original creators deserve fair compensation. 

The music industry clamped down on sampling after The Beastie Boys seminal album Paul’s Boutique (1989). Now, sample clearance can and often does stifle creativity by making it cost-prohibitive. 

With blockchain technology, sample clearance and royalty payments could be made easier and cheaper for musicians. Artists and labels could simply make music available to musicians for sampling and remixing through smart contracts, cutting out middlemen, and allowing a new era of sample-based creativity to bloom. While a boon for new musicians, Vandal isn’t sure how this will impact older music that artists want to sample.  

“It’s hard to say whether older music will be re-released to include on-chain splits to facilitate royalties,” Vandal says. “If it does, it could positively impact the future of sampling.”

To nurture remix culture, Endlesss will launch a marketplace with a smart contract that features a “remix royalty” for creators. The NEAR blockchain is unique in that a royalty function is baked in at the protocol level, unlike other chains where it can only be added after the fact. 

“So, if someone buys a Rifff and starts a new Jam, then the participants in the Jam from which that Riff was purchased will collectively get a royalty,” he says. “Whether that royalty will be 60%, 20%, 80% is hard to say. I have no idea what people will feel is right.”

“The secret part of remix culture has always been recontextualizing,” says Exile. “It’s context to the power of 2: that’s actually where the value gets created. Splice is all-you-can-eat samples, and Spotify all-you-can-eat music, which is great for commodities but bad for culture because it commodifies it. Culture is all about meaning, purpose, and uniqueness, and I would say that all-you-can-eat and culture are incompatible.” 

Exile also sees something else fascinating in blockchain-based sampling and remix culture. With smart contracts, musicians and listeners can trace sample attribution through layers upon layers of creation, like descending Wikipedia-style rabbit holes. 

This just doesn’t happen with Web2 music software and streaming platforms. In Web3, musicians can be part of a new renaissance in music culture. 

“There’s a golden opportunity to monetize culture through meaning rather than commodification,” says Exile. “This is how it should be, I think.”

Redefining the record label and royalties
Labels are facilitators—this won’t change in Web3. But, those labels that wish to operate in Web3 will have to rethink how they function.  

“Record labels will most likely be DAOs, providing funding, support, resources, and even minting NFTs and performing other services to artists, as needed,” says Vandal. DAO labels can offer shared ownership, transparency, and a blockchain-inspired business model that appeals to artists. 

Amber Stoneman, founder of Minting Music, a music-first NFT production and promotion company, says musicians under contract already have labels managing their NFT releases. Minting Music helps these labels, or artists that decide to forego labels, build NFT marketplaces. 

In song publishing, there are multiple forms of ownership. Someone can own the overall master recording, while over 20 other individuals or entities can own rights to lyrics, composition, recording, and more. Song catalogs are bought out from under musicians and sold over and over again.

“In the Web2 space, musicians don’t know who owns their music or where it’s at,” says Stoneman. “We’ve never had technology like the blockchain to track things so clearly and transparently.”

“An artist can sell an NFT and it could make X amount of dollars, and they have just a few creator wallets connected to that smart contract, and the royalty splits are happening in real time,” she adds.

Artists will also be able to easily claim their copyrights in cases of dispute by using NFTs and on-chain data. Muti’s smokedfalmon says listeners and fans could also tip artists for their work. 

Both muti’s Tabea and DAORecords’ Vandal believe simplifying royalty payouts with smart contracts will make artists more open and willing to collaborate and create work together. “Fractionalization of the publishing pie with fans or early investors is also an exciting possibility,” says Vandal.

“This is a plus from the community side of things, as Web3 can help in shifting the decision-making,” Tabea says. “It allows a collective, agency, or artist to use a DAO to not only hold and receive funds but integrate the wider community. So, fans and supporters can actually vote on decisions towards the future of the DAO/project, if the collective wants that.” 

Creators and community are the future
With blockchain, the future of music is the creator. But no musical creator will exist in a silo or vacuum. Musicians can and will be more integrated with communities. New ones will pop up, morph, evolve, and die, becoming the seeds for new artistic communities. 

“The creator proposition is in building, owning, and curating your identity in collaborating with others, on your own terms,” adds Endlesss’ Exile. “And the dynamics will propel people along those collective journeys.” 

“Doing this work on NEAR over the last year with guilds and DAOs has given me confidence that I’ve chosen right,” says Vandal. “Community is everything,” Vandal says. 

What needs to happen, in his opinion, is a true understanding of decentralization’s power. Sure, the new musician can leverage blockchain for their own benefit, but its capacity for community-building and engagement is potent. This, Vandal believes, can put the music industry on the path to revolution.  

“It is definitely an exciting time for musicians,” he says. “We are history in the making.”

Check out the complete series on Blockchain Music:

Part 1: Music and Blockchain: Introducing the Future of Sound

Part 2: Building a Record Label on the Blockchain
A Deep Dive into DAOs: Exploring Astro DAO
COMMUNITY
March 21, 2022
DAOs are transforming the way things are done—be it in the business world, creative spaces, social arenas, and the charity sector.  From artists and political activists to legal services and tech investors, Web3’s answer to a company, organization, or collective has piqued everyone’s interest.

First things first: a DAO is an internet-based formalized community that can self-govern and take on aspects of a company. It is decentralized, meaning there is no top-down hierarchical structure, as there is with most businesses, so decisions can be made by all involved. 

A DAO’s rules are enforced automatically because they’re embedded in code and stored in a blockchain. Members are able to vote on what the DAO will do—often via governance tokens. With some DAOs, those who hold the most tokens will call the bigger shots. 

What’s NEAR’s role in the DAO world? With its super-fast, easy, and low-cost blockchain, which is moving toward infinite scalability through the unique Nightshade sharding approach, the NEAR protocol is the ideal ecosystem for DAOs. 

One such project making use of NEAR to help accelerate the DAO ecosystem is Astro—a DAO designed and maintained for DAO creation. Take a closer look.

What is Astro DAO? 
Unveiled in late 2021, Astro is a NEAR-powered platform that lets anyone launch a DAO. Celebrated by users for being simple, it allows anyone to set up a DAO in just a few clicks. “Everyday, easy DAOs” is Astro’s motto, and once you get under its hood, it’s easy to see why. But first, an origin story.

Jordan Gray, who is part of Astro as well as TenK DAO and the NEAR Misfits NFT collection, was working on a decentralized incubator at NEAR last year when he was drawn into helping create Sputnik—a new hub for developing and interacting with DAOs through powerful smart contracts built on the NEAR blockchain. (Smart contracts, by the way, are lines of untamperable cryptographic code that automatically execute contracts between multiple parties.) 

With Sputnik, the NEAR community now had a launchpad to help people set up their own DAOs. But Jordan wanted to simplify DAO creation. Sputnik’s smart contracts were powerful but complex for newcomers, or anyone wanting to set up more basic DAOs, for that matter. Jordan worked through smart contracts to essentially strip them down and group them together in the easy-to-use interface that became Astro. 

Astro is now a web front end to all the smart contacts that run DAOs using the NEAR network. Jordan stripped it down so Astro’s easy-to-use UI is almost binary in how it lets users set up a DAO: users are given two options on how to launch. For example, whether voting power will be democratic or token-weighted.

“Somebody who is even new to crypto could come and start a DAO, and be able to manage a treasury with their friends and vote on things,” says Gray. “With a few clicks, you can get your own DAO set up.”


Who is using Astro? 
In the year since its launch, Astro is gaining traction. Scores of DAOs have been set up using Astro, and they really run the gamut. 

A DAO designed for Africa’s blockchain developers? Check. A DAO to publicize NEAR artists and the DAOs’ metaverse activities? Yes. An exhibition in the NFT world to give “visibility to cis women, trans women, non-binaries and transvestite Brazilian artists”? This was also created on the Astro platform.  

The list of DAOs launching on Astro is varied and constantly growing. Each new DAO built on Astro takes advantage of how quick and easy it is to use the platform to build on the NEAR blockchain. 

One project, Marma J, which leverages web3 tech for social good, chose Astro because of its ease-of-use feature set. The DAO, comprised of council members who vote on proposals with “the goal of spreading love and positivity”—such as raising funds for sick children—is one of the most active projects launched on Astro. 

Chloe Lewis, the founder of Marma J, said that NEAR’s low-cost blockchain is what helped the project expand. 

“Astro has been much easier to use, not just for us, but more importantly for the community,” said Lewis. “NEAR helps mostly by having a good user interface as well as low transaction fees so our community can onboard simply.” 

Michael Kelly, also known as Ozymandius, is a founding member of the Croncats DAO, a platform for scheduling blockchain transactions, and a member of MOVE Capital DAO, which helps early ecosystem projects launch on NEAR Protocol. He said that Astro was easy for those who didn’t necessarily have the technical know-how to set up a DAO on NEAR but were attracted to its benefits. 

“This is what we got with Astro,” Ozymandius says. “A clean, user-friendly, and well-powered DAO spin-up factory for projects to have pretty good customization on how they want to handle funds and govern decision making.”

What’s next for Astro? 
These are still early days for Astro, and Jordan Gray says things aren’t 100 percent where they need to be just yet. The team behind Astro is still working to make the platform simpler to use. “We’re getting there but we’re not there yet,” Gray says.

Though Sputnik will be updating its smart contracts: v3 is on its way. And when it arrives, it will have new tools and functions built into them. Astro will implement these new smart contracts which, it is hoped, will speed up DAO adoption and innovation on NEAR. 

Gray did make it clear that using Astro won’t immediately create a community that many big DAOs have. It just provides the template to quickly automate what DAOs do. 

“It’s really just software that allows you to automate some things and have security if you are doing a treasury, or governance,” Jordan adds. “Your community is something other than your DAO.”


An Open Invitation to the Harmony Community
COMMUNITY
July 29, 2022
The NEAR Foundation works tirelessly to create a stable ecosystem. A place for developers, founders, and community members to collectively build an Open Web world.

During this tumultuous period for Web3 and the broader global economy, many projects that launched or are actively building on the Harmony network are now facing uncertainty. Which is why NEAR Foundation is extending an open invitation to anyone currently building on Harmony to join the NEAR community, and make this vibrant ecosystem their new home.

As part of this invitation, NEAR Foundation and Proximity Labs have put together  sizable relief funds for projects from the Harmony ecosystem. If you’re looking to bring your project over to NEAR, here’s what you need to know.

Why choose NEAR? 
The NEAR blockchain is built with simplicity in mind. NEAR uses common coding languages like WebAssembly (WASM) and Rust to build its smart contracts. NEAR is also launching a Javascript SDK, making the switch simple for those who built with Harmony’s own Javascript implementation, or were considering it. Aurora, which is built on NEAR, is 100% EVM-compatible, and NEAR’s super fast transactions run on an infinitely scalable yet carbon neutral protocol. By switching to NEAR, your project would join over 700 apps building on NEAR. 

NEAR was built by developers for developers. NEAR Foundation and other ecosystem platforms, like Aurora and Pagoda, have vast offerings of class-leading resources for developers to begin building on NEAR. These include NEAR.University’s training and certification programs—to date, over 5,000 developers trained—and $45M+ in project grants within the NEAR ecosystem. 

The NEAR community also offers extensive documentation on building and deploying on the network, and much more.

NEAR’s developer resources
Interested in developing on NEAR? Great! A range of resources are at your disposal: 

Developer Tools – NEAR CLIs, SDKs, APIs and more.
Code Examples – Explore how to deploy Rust and AssemblyScript.  
Developer Bounties – Bug fixes, developer grants and other incentives. 
Grants Program – More than 800 projects funded and over $45 million awarded.
Office Hours – Talk to expert developers about your project. 
Education – Learn, watch and build.  
Ecosystem – Explore the more than 700 projects already being building in the NEAR ecosystem. 
Interested in learning more about how the NEAR Foundation team can help you make the switch? Please email [email protected] with the subject line, “Harmony Migration”, and one of the teams will respond within 24 hours. 
Community Update: July 3rd, 2020
COMMUNITY
July 3, 2020
A huge thank you to all 7k+ of you that read our bi-weekly ecosystem updates. It means a lot to us that so many people from different geographies, different expertise and interests, are excited about participating in NEAR’s broad-ranging community. 

With our ecosystem continuing to grow beyond technical advancements, this newsletter has shifted to a broader focus. If you’re interested in receiving NEAR’s deep-technical updates, please join our recently launched developer newsletter for monthly engineering & protocol updates.

Register

NEAR Drops — Send NEAR to anyone via a link
We want NEAR to be easy to use (as easy as Web2!) for both developers & end-users. Now, with NEAR Drops, you can send NEAR to anyone via a link, whether they have a NEAR account or not. Get the full details from the announcement. 

Events
Join us at the “Go For Launch!” conference call, hosted by Pantera. Illia and Colin Evran from Filecoin will explore the process of taking innovative technologies from ideation to launch.

When? Next Tuesday the 7th at 9 AM

Sign-up Here

Content Highlights
Episode #6 of “Building the Open Web” with Danny Zuckerman from 3Box is out; discussing how to Build User-Friendly Products in Web3.
Apple Podcasts | Spotify | YouTube
If you missed the “Scaling Web3” Panel between Illia, Changpeng Zhao (CZ) from Binance, Sergey Nazarov from Chainlink and Jamie Burke from Outlier Ventures — you can now view the recording.
Flux is introducing the Flux token.
Introducing the Open Web Collective
Founders “will learn and work with leading entrepreneurs, corporate partners, and investors such as IDEO, Deloitte, and The World Economic Forum to validate/invalidate business ideas and decisions, build a product, define and grow KPIs, develop product-market fit, and fundraise.” — Read the whole update here. 

If you would like to receive more founder updates, please sign-up for the OWC mailing list.

Engineering Update
We Published v1.0.0 of create-near-app. Spin-up your own app in seconds: https://github.com/near/create-near-app/releases/tag/v1.0.0

You can find quick updates until we launch our developer newsletter in the Rust in Blockchain Newsletter with updates on NEAR.

Middleware update: 

The security audit will start on the Rainbow Bridge. We will be adding final CLI command, tests, and documentation. @Bo and @Bowen are looking at an issue that we found with verifying ed25519 signatures from the current testnet;
RPC @frol is finishing Rosetta support, ATA beginning next week. Unfortunately, since Rosetta API does not support pagination it can only be used with locally running nodes. Bohdan finished explorer indexer;
Contract runtime @Nikolay.Igotti has added support for Wasmtime. @sirwillem and @Nikolay.Igotti are working on decreasing the contract size.
Transaction runtime. While @sirwillem was adding a fee for loading contracts into memory he exposed an issue which looks like P0, @Bowen will take a look. @Nikolay.Igotti ‘s params estimator will be added to the CI to avoid this kind of issues later;
Contracts. @Evgeny | NEAR made lockup contract to work with multisig, also added an e2e bash script test to check the interaction of all core contracts with the nodes;
If you have questions and would like to connect with our amazing engineering team, head over to Discord.

And lastly, here is a sneak peek of what is yet to come by Flux


How You Can Get Involved
We have something for everyone

Join the NEAR Contributor Program to contribute to our engineering efforts.
You love hosting events, engaging communities, and creating content? Then head over to our Guild Program.
If you are in the process of setting up your own start-up in the Web3 space, the Open Web Collective will provide guidance.
If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, join the conversation on Discord, and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
NEARCON 2022 is Almost Here: Explore the NEAR Ecosystem in Lisbon!
COMMUNITY
September 1, 2022
Olá amigos! There’s a lot of excitement brewing in the NEAR community for what is gearing up to be one of the year’s premier Web3 events. If you’re not already up to speed, NEARCON is more than just a typical Web3 conference with talks and panels. NEARCON will be a showcase of 700+ ecosystem projects spanning all Web3 verticals and layers in the stunning coastal city of Lisbon, in a converted warehouse space located directly on the water. 

NEARCON will be an interactive demonstration of the talent, creativity, intelligence, and practical use cases of the mighty (and growing) ecosystem. It will also be a pretty rad time, with parties, IRL hackathon, food trucks from around the world, fun swag, and more! 

Can’t Stop, Won’t Stop 
Start the week off strong on September 11th by picking up your badge and swag bag. The NEARCON Registration Party, which is carnival-themed, will feature a bounce house from SWEAT where you can Bounce to earn SWEAT. Oh, and did we mention there will be a ferris wheel to take in the epic views that Lisbon has to offer? 

Opening Night at NEARCON kicks off with a soirée of epic proportions hosted by Proximity. You won’t want to miss the future of finance taking over Lisbon in one incredible night. VIP Tickets are FREE, but they must be obtained from one of our 10 fabulous sponsors: Orderly Network, Few and Far, Cornerstone/MetaWeb, Ref.Finance, Meta Pool, Aurigami, Burrow Cash, Trisolaris, Pembrock Finance, and Bastion. Check out their Twitter, Discord, Telegram today. Tickets will be released this week!

Part of the NEARNaut tribe yet? If not, definitely get your NEARNaut NFT from one of NEAR’s marketplaces (Paras or Few and Far) before NEARCON so you can attend the NEARnaut after party. It will be a great vibe and a chance to get acquainted with this community-driven, randomly-generated NFT PFP project built on NEAR. We hear they are also demoing their mutant serums—you might want to upgrade that NEARNaut!

NEAR UA Takes Lisbon
Since March, the NEAR Ukraine Hub (NEAR UA) has made its home in Lisbon and at NEARCON you’ll get to learn all about what they’ve been up to. NEAR UA is a combination of community, project accelerator, fund pool, product lab, event and marketing service, and a hiring service for the NEAR ecosystem. At their booth you will be able to explore hub activity and discuss current projects and opportunities for collaboration. You’ll also be able to grab some swag with Ukrainian symbols to show off when you get home. 

On September 13th, NEAR UA is hosting a Ukrainian night called “The Code of Freedom” with headliner ONUKA and opener Miura. You definitely don’t want to miss this or the afterparty thrown by NEARNauts. 

At “The Code of Freedom” everyone will have the opportunity to learn about Ukraine, including its unique culture, hip styles, yummy food, and funky music that will make you want to get on your feet and shake it. You’ll get to witness the very “code of freedom” that helps Ukrainians now. 

100% of proceeds from ticket sales will directly help Ukrainian hospitals procure modular external fixators and prepare for winter in areas in the Kharkiv region with heat, food, and hygiene. Purchase a ticket to the event and help NEAR UA surpass their goal of €20,000! 

A Global Happening 
Though the talks and panels will be in English, expect to hear a lot of different languages spoken at NEARCON. There will be over 170 countries represented in attendance! In addition to the NEAR UA, other regional hubs featured at NEARCON will include the Balkans, Kenya, and Vietnam. 

Visit the various Regional Hubs to learn how NEAR is operating around the world. Also, expect to find delicious food trucks representing all these regions in the World Lounge. Who doesn’t love food trucks?

Mainstage Revelry
The Mainstage at NEARCON is the crown jewel of the Conference. The Mainstage is where you’ll hear keynote speeches from some of the most ambitious minds in Web3, including the top leaders at NEAR, Pagoda, Aurora, and Sweat Economy. You’ll also be present for a ton of great panels on a wide variety of Web3 topics, including the “Meaning of Money”, “Why We Need Web2.5”, “Navigating Crypto’s Cycles”, “How NEAR and SailGP Are Revolutionizing Professional Sport”, and much more. 

House of Hackstravaganza
Hackers can still grab a free conference pass by applying for the hackathon here. If selected, hackers get free admission to NEARCON, and after submitting a successful hack they get a travel stipend paid in NEAR tokens. There will be a registration party/orientation on September 11th when hackers will be onboarded and teams will be assembled. 

In addition to receiving hands-on mentoring, hackers will be able to compete for $145k in crypto prizes to be awarded to 10 individuals and teams, including first, second, and third place, as well as winners in categories such as Future of Finance, Web2 to Web3, Governance, and more. Check out the judges and get more information here. 

Get Activated
NEARCON will be a hotspot for developer activations, with Pagoda and Aurora leading the way. You will definitely want to stop by their booths and meet their teams, especially if you are participating in the hackathon. Learn about the developer tools the team at Pagoda builds to simplify the dev experience for dapp developers as they build, deploy, test, and launch on NEAR. 

Hackers will be invited to an Orientation on the 11th during the Registration Party. Meet with the Pagoda team, learn about the latest dev tools, and maybe find future hackathon team members. 

You’ll also get to meet the core Aurora team and learn from them firsthand how to build dapps on Aurora EVM, enhance the UX of blockchain projects with Aurora+, and network with an array of ecosystem projects that are already up and running on Aurora. 

Activations aren’t only for devs, though. Creatives will find themselves more than satisfied with the art, music, and creativity present everywhere at NEARCON, both inside and outside of the conference. Come check out artists working on NEAR including Orrin Campbell, Franknines, Strakts, and Zeitwarp. Get your imagination fed!

Women of Web3 
Ten winners of the Women in Web3 Changemakers will be announced at NEARCON and it will be meaningful to honor them and make room for more women to join the Web3 ecosystem. Check out Forkast’s interview coverage to learn more about the shortlist of nominees. 

There will also be a yummy brunch worth waking up early for on September 12th at Dear Breakfast, which runs from 8:30am to 10:30am. Don’t forget to set your alarm! 

Discounts
TAP Air Portugal has partnered with NEAR to get you discounted airfare to NEARCON! Traveling from Paris, London, or some other European destination? Hop on a quick flight to Lisbon on the cheap. Book through flytap.com and insert the event code “IT22TPCG61” in the promotion/congress code box for 10% off your economy or business class tickets. The discount is valid only for trips made ten days before or after NEARCON.

And psst! If you want to save a little cash on your conference ticket, Pagoda and Aurora have discount codes for 35% off. Check their Twitter feeds to find them! 

Don’t be afraid to say hi!
The NEARCON gathering is a great chance to see what the future holds for Web3. And if you’re developing your own project on NEAR, or thinking about building one, it’s also a fantastic time to get feedback from NEAR’s creative and supportive community. Don’t hesitate to say hello and introduce yourself. Everyone at NEAR is excited to be hosting NEARCON and will be happy to meet you. 

See you in Lisbon!
NEAR Community Update: March 22, 2019
COMMUNITY
March 22, 2019
If you’ve ever observed a duckling gliding across the surface of a pond, you know that what looks like effortless motion above the water is generated because their little feet spin furiously below the surface to keep them moving. For us, it’s definitely been a duck week — lots going on beneath the surface while we continue the march towards MainNet.

A big welcome to Peter DePaulo, who is joining us in Developer Relations. Peter comes with a rich background that spans everything from open source communities to engineering products that serve some of the biggest companies in the world. On his first day, he upgraded our documentation to a much more user-friendly organizational style and his presence will undoubtedly be felt in the community.

The Whiteboard Series continues to pick up steam and is best consumed on our YouTube channel, despite how educational it is in GIF form:

Community and Events
After an exhilarating — and exhausting — couple of months packed full of events, it’s good to have the team back in one place for a hot second to focus on creative ideation and building. It’s also helpful to have the Game Developer Conference in our home town this week as well because we’ve had the opportunity to meet some very interesting projects and show off our usability.

We will be pushing community development efforts in some exciting new directions over the upcoming weeks so stay tuned for that.

If you want to host a local NEAR meetup in your city or see if we can support yours, reach out to [email protected].

Recent Events

[Paris] March 8–10: Events around Eth Paris
[Tokyo] March 8: NEAR at Waseda University
[Tokyo] March 9: NEAR at HashHub
[Beijing] March 11: NEAR at Beijing AI
[Beijing] March 13: NEAR at Tsinghua University
[SF] March 20: Building on a Blockchain DevNet (Workshop)
[San Jose] March 21: Blockchain Developer Meetup
Upcoming Events

[Berlin] Mar 25: NEAR, Fluence and Cosmos DevNet and MainNet Demo Night
[SF] Mar 27: Unblocked SF with Erik Trautman of NEAR Protocol
[SF] Mar 28: Decentralized Computing with WASM @ Github
[Uruguay] Mar 29: Rust Latam conference
[San Mateo] Mar 30–31: Nueva Hacks Hackathon
[Sydney] April 8: EdCon
[Fremont] April 20: Launch Hacks hackathon
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

Writing and Content
Dr Maksym Zavershynskyi wrote another in-depth post on Rust called Remote Development and Debugging of Rust with CLion. The Whiteboard Series continues strong with several new videos:

Ep9: Stan Kladko of SKALE Labs
Ep10: David Utrobin from MakerDAO
EP11: Guang Yang from Conflux
Engineering Highlights
On the application/development layer, we’re re-skinning the UIs for the wallet and block explorers. On the blockchain layer, we’ve deployed our multi-node AlphaNet (a Proof-of-Authority-style network that runs a full consensus) and are stabilizing for public release.

There were 42 PRs in nearcore from 10 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

Blockchain Layer

Stabilizing TestNet “Alpha”: reactive catchup for blocks and bug fixes. Follow the documentation to launch your own network and attach our studio IDE to it.
Updated runtime WASM api to support faster reads and writes
Caching authority computation to speed up startup time
Benchmarks for the client excluding network and consensus.
Improved APIs and integration tests for DevNet while improving stability.
Application/Development Layer

Streamlined command line tools for local development, testing, and deployment
Continued work on improving receipts for cross-contract calls.
Deployed new docs.
How You Can Get Involved
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings.

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

 

https://upscri.be/633436/
How GLASS is Uncorking Adult Beverage Loyalty with Web3 and NEAR
NEAR FOUNDATION
August 10, 2023
GLASS, the world’s first compliant Web3 community and loyalty platform for the $1.6 trillion alcohol industry, is deploying on the NEAR blockchain to engage social drinkers. Founded by Zoe Leavitt, who formerly led early-stage social and entertainment investing for the VC arm of AB InBev, the world’s largest beer company, and serial blockchain entrepreneur and compliance tech expert Calvin Pak, GLASS redefines the ways alcohol brands connect with consumers during social occasions.

GLASS’s compliance infrastructure allows wine, beer, and spirits brands to directly engage social drinkers, introducing groundbreaking innovation to an industry navigating strict legal restrictions when it comes to sales and marketing.

Rather than spending seven million dollars on a 30-second Super Bowl ad spot, what if alcohol brands could send drinks directly to over four hundred thousand fan watch parties? Tapping into Web3, this is the future that GLASS plans to create. Brands on GLASS use tokens to incentivize fans to try new cocktail recipes, socialize with friends, vote on brand decisions, and more; and fans can use those tokens to unlock exclusive rewards and experiences. 

Prominent brands stir up social engagement with GLASS
Premium alcohol brands are already live on this groundbreaking new platform. These include premium Italian winemaker Lyons Wine; Talkhouse Encore, the canned cocktail brand affiliated with legendary music hall The Stephen Talkhouse; Hotaling & Co’s Fiero Tequila, the spiciest infused tequila in the US; and Junipero Gin, the original American craft gin. Each brand is prepped to offer its customers unique rewards — from exclusive merchandise to money-can’t buy-experiences on Web3 with GLASS and the NEAR blockchain. 

“We see great potential in building the Lyons Wine community on GLASS,” said Lyons Wine CEO and founder Chris Lyons. “Lyons Wine has always been driven by community and innovation, and we’re excited to leverage web3 to bring exclusive rewards to our network through this platform.”

Through upcoming integrations with alcohol e-commerce and point-of-sale platforms, GLASS members will be able to track purchases and earn for purchasing as well as socializing — in ways that comply with each member’s local regulations. From the bar, to the friend’s house, to the stadium, GLASS creates a unified platform for fans and brands to engage across the full universe of social occasions.   

“We’re excited to use this new platform to engage and grow the Fiero Tequila community of ‘heat seekers’ who rally around the spiciest infused tequila in the U.S,” said Jordan Parker, Head of Marketing for the Agave Portfolio at Hotaling & Co. “The platform will help us bring our community together around the unique, social activations that Fiero has planned.”

GLASS will continue to announce new brand partnerships and roll out new features throughout the summer and fall. Consumers can sign up directly at www.glass.fun to start earning tokens today.
NEAR Foundation Partners with Vortex Gaming, a Web3 Subsidiary of Korea’s Largest Gaming Community INVEN
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 22, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Vortex Gaming, a Web3 subsidiary of the leading game industry INVEN. INVEN is the largest game media·community in Korea, with a monthly active user (MAU) count of 7.2 million.

With the guidance of the NEAR Korea Hub, NEAR Foundation and Vortex Gaming plan to achieve mutual growth by collaborating to support the growth of Vortex Gaming; strengthen the NEAR game ecosystem; conduct offline hackathons and events to foster developer talent; and enhance brand awareness and business networks.

To support Web3 gaming, Vortex Gaming will leverage NEAR’s global layer 1 protocol, known for its user experience and scalability, and the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The BOS is an OS for an open web, allowing developers to effortlessly build apps for an internet free from centralized platforms.

“Following the leading companies in the gaming industry such as Kakao Games, Wemade, Netmarble’s Marblex, we expect our sustainable game ecosystem to be further enhanced through this partnership with INVEN,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation, expressed her delight at INVEN joining the NEAR ecosystem.

Vortex Gaming: an open web community game changer
Vortex Gaming is a content-based game community that builds services optimized for Web3 games. It also offers a global social media platform and features such as Gaming Guild. Vortex’s Gaming Guild will allow members to earn rewards by playing games, participating in tournaments, and contributing to the guild’s community. The guild system also provides a stronger sense of bonding between guild members, which can help strengthen user retention.

Vortex Gaming also aims to break a major stereotype of current Web3 games as being dominated by a few profit-seeking individuals. It does this by offering specialized content that thoroughly explores the in-game economy, the completeness of the game, and gameplay guide. By leveraging its successful experience in building Web2 communities, Vortex Gaming plans to establish a robust user base by incorporating both high quality content and INVEN’s existing wide pool of users.

INVEN is the largest game media·community in Korea. For over 20 years it has been the leading company in the game industry, driving the development as the top online game media platform. Based on content generated in-house, INVEN continues to innovate and expand into industries such as entertainment and Web3.

“The ultimate goal is to build an integrated gamer community that encompasses both Web3 and traditional Web2 gamers by providing high quality Web3 and Web2 content alike,” said Vortex Gaming CEO, HOON JAI LEE. “Gamers and their communities are the most crucial components of the game ecosystem. In addition to offering game content for gamers and their communities, Vortex Gaming envisions establishing a sustainable cycle by incentivizing gamers’ production of content such as character builds and game guides”.

The NEAR Korea Hub, responsible for business expansion across Korea and other Asian regions, has been instrumental in fostering this partnership. The Hub views Vortex’s onboarding as a significant moment that further accelerates the development of the NEAR gaming ecosystem.

“While the strong content competitiveness of leading companies plays a crucial role in attracting many users to the NEAR ecosystem, community is the key driving force in maintaining this competitiveness,”said  Scott Lee, Co-CEO of NEAR Korea. “The synergy effects resulting from the onboarding of Vortex Gaming will further strengthen NEAR’s position as the optimal mainnet in the Web3 game ecosystem, accelerating ecosystem development.”
NEAR Community Update: April 19, 2019
COMMUNITY
April 19, 2019
We started this journey by building the application layer of the platform so developers could make apps even before everything on the blockchain layer was production-ready. This makes sense since we’re building a technology which benefits heavily from market feedback and iteration… not launching rockets into space.

In this spirit, while the research, engineering and product teams continue to bring us to a full TestNet, NEAR will be hosting our first online hackathon (“Hack One”) starting on April 27. This kicks off a series of lightweight virtual hackathons which are designed to help developers from different backgrounds and domains build applications on the platform.

The theme of Hack One, which is described in greater detail here, is the creation of virtual worlds where users permissionlessly generate their own content. This highlights a set of fun, low stakes use cases where participants can create applications that are both collaborative and blockchain-native. The event, which lasts for 2 weeks, will be judged by Linda Xie of Scalar Capital and Peter Kieltyka of Horizon Games and offers prizes for strong finishers.

We’ll be hosting additional educational content leading up to this event so new developers have an easy way of ramping up as well. If you’re interested, sign up on (or share!) the event page.

Helping spearhead this effort is Jessica Watson Miller, who recently joined NEAR to be the primary interface with our community and the architect of everything that surrounds it. In addition to working across the product spectrum in the blockchain space, she also has the unique distinction of having run a circus and bodypainted competitively. That’s just the right combination for the unique vibe that we’re working hard to create.

Community and Events
With Jess’s new focus on the experience of prospective and current community members, expect to see more changes in how the community is supported during the coming weeks. Hack One is just the beginning of this.

Recent Events

[Sydney] April 8–13: EdCon
[SF] April 10: NEAR, Cosmos & Fluence: Devnet & Mainnet Demo Night I
[Santa Clara] April 11: NEAR, Cosmos & Fluence: Devnet & Mainnet Demo Night II
Upcoming Events

[ONLINE] April 27 — May 11: Hack One Online Hackathon
[NYC]: Consensus Week (various events)
If you want to collaborate on events, reach out to [email protected]

Writing and Content
We’ve spoken at length about the usability (or lack thereof) of current blockchains and their applications. More recently, CEO Alex Skidanov has highlighted what specific changes need to be done on the protocol level to support this:

On Usability in Blockchain Applications by Alex Skidanov
Alex’s Talk on Usability at Berkeley
Whiteboard Series Ep14: Alistair Stewart from Polkadot
Whiteboard Series Ep15: Izaak Meckler from Coda
Alex Skidanov on the Let’s Talk ETC podcast
Bonus: A rough sharding design proposal called “Whale Fishing”
Engineering Highlights
Development on the application layer has been focused primarily on making sure the wallet accomplishes our user experience goals while development on the blockchain layer has focused on building, testing and benchmarking TestNet using a couple of example consensus algorithms. Research continues on finalizing both economics and the sharding design.

There were 63 PRs in nearcore from 7 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

Application/Development Layer

Implemented app-specific keys to enable mobile applications
Made CLI dev tools compatible with CI and allow developer to customize build in gulpfile
Published nearlib 0.5.2
NEARStudio bugfixes (Offer to fork, Wait until compiler is ready)
Created a proof of concept for Fortmatic integration with NEAR
Added Frontend deploy to the ‘deploy’ command in CLI tool
Added “Top N” functionality to collections in near runtime
Finalizing the new wallet designs
Blockchain Layer

Added ~100 integration tests;
Created a load testing tool for TestNet;
Changed the format of the blocks to compute twice fewer BLS signatures.
Added testing infrastructure and improved testing coverage
Alex began discussion around a new model of sharding called Whale Fishing.
How You Can Get Involved
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends 🙂

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/
The Future of DAOs: DAOs at Work and IRL
COMMUNITY
March 31, 2022
In “DAOs of the Near Future” Part I, we explored how DAO tooling, coordination, and standards will be crucial going forward. Now that we can imagine the ways in which DAOs can be improved, let’s explore how they will change things IRL. 

As Web3 matures and goes mainstream, existing alongside and working in concert with Web2 platforms, DAOs will impact the world in more physical ways, from work to ReFi and sustainability to automation of business documentation and beyond. 

Let’s take a look at how DAOs are already evolving, and how this process will be accelerated for mass Web3 adoption. 

The DAO of work
In the last few years, remote employment changed how people work—up to a point. But it’s possible that DAOs will be even more transformative with work in terms of how, when, how long, and under what conditions. 

With more transparency in contracts and fund transfers, Marma J Foundation’s Chloe Lewis thinks DAOs will allow community members to work on what they want, when they want to, without worrying about the next paycheck. 

“When you can see publicly that there are hundreds of funded DAOs that have open gigs, it’s less stressful to think of working for DAOs as being a reasonable way of life,” Lewis muses. “I also see DAOs using their governance token as a way to fund more projects without really selling or giving away the token through more advanced DeFi opportunities.”

Belonging to a DAO is, in effect, a new type of work. A person isn’t hired so much as they join a DAO in a more participatory way. 

With DAOs, work’s traditional top-down command structure can be flipped. This will create a fairer entry for ambitious individuals looking to get rewarded based on participation, output, and unity. 

“Coming from both a startup and corporate world, I can say that a DAO is not comparable,” says Trevor Clarke, founder of Croncat, which does decentralized scheduling NEAR blockchain transactions. “A DAO utilizes elements of both, but when a startup or corporation would constantly require higher authority chains to finalize direction, DAOs can simply allow the community to be the decisive force.”

Open Forest Protocol’s Rim Berjack is full-time crypto and notices that when she introduces herself, or interacts with different projects and stakeholders, she identifies herself as her role in the DAO. This isn’t simply an add-on to who she is. It’s necessary since she works as part of a DAO, and the DAO actually makes decisions and implements changes in projects. 

“If I were to try and explain that I work for a DAO to my parents, they wouldn’t really understand what that means and not really consider it a ‘job,’,” she says. “But when you think about it simply in terms of effects, if you contribute to something, you produce results, and get compensated for it, that’s work.”

In the current Web3 space, working for a DAO means freedom and creativity, with work being self-motivated and “earned” rather than assigned. A very startup-like ethos. Right now, DAOs offer a lot of equality and very little hierarchy in the decision-making processes. 

“Working in a DAO is a testimony to the nature of work in crypto at large, which is much more entrepreneurial, undefined, and therefore creative,” says Berjack. “I was at ETH Denver recently and a Coordinape and Yearn contributor talked about how in DAOs work is defined by the intersection of what you like, what you can do, and what the project needs.”

There is a lot of fluidity and flexibility in DAO governance, and this likely has something to do with the lack of contractual obligations for work. This might change for certain DAOs, like those operating in the DeFi space, who might be working with sensitive financial information. In the future, those DAOs that want a more traditional mode of work will balance it with the free-wheeling, creative Web3 startup ethos. 

Beyond flattening work hierarchies, H.E.R. DAO’s Tracey Bowen sees future DAOs shifting the autonomy of work—centering the human rather than the company or machine. 

“The DAOs of the future will look markedly different from today,” Bowen says. “Less dogmatic and rigid concerning technical requirements and more geared towards serving the needs of groups and populations across the globe.”

“Equity is the new currency of our future cooperative world,” Bowen continues. “It’s the foundation on which many new Web3 projects are being built, and will be the standard bearer and rating system related to the efficacy of our ideas and the authenticity of our practices.”

Jordan Gray of AstroDAO, a DAO launchpad platform, has a lot of different ideas on how DAOs will impact the world. For one, he thinks DAOs will have a huge impact on how business will be conducted.  

“The last time things were really revolutionized in the business world was with spreadsheets—people use them to do any kind of business, computation, or keeping track of things,” says Gray. “I think that DAOs are going to revolutionize business in a very similar way, where many things that happen with spreadsheets are going to be automated, and processes are going to get put in place and cemented into code that allows organizations to work a lot more efficiently.”

“That’s where I see DAOs maturing on the legal front, so that things like that are possible,” he adds. “That’s also where I see a huge opportunity in the future.”

Jessica Zartler, Communications Advisor and Researcher at BlockScience, hopes that people won’t work for DAOs as anthropomorphized entities. 

“[Ideally, people will] share collective ownership of the value created in the network and have unconditional basic income,” she says. “This will enable them to choose to work on things they are more passionate about—exploring via natural curiosity and intrinsic motivation.”

Others aren’t so sure how DAOs will change the nature of work. But many Web3 natives, including Luis Freitas, Co-founder of 3XR—a platform for creating customer experiences like VR galleries—believe that DAOs are already changing how people work and cooperate in the NEAR ecosystem and on other blockchains.

“When I started thinking more actively about DAOs in 2020 it was mostly because I was working remotely with a global team on a project owned by us—the team,” says Freitas. 

“Now, I’ve started DAOs [DAOLEX and VR DAO] for the exact same reason and I think it has not only changed the way I work but also for everyone involved.”

DAOs IRL
Some might wonder how DAOs will interact with things outside of crypto. This was a question also put to developers of Web1 and Web2 platforms. The truth is that Web3, and DAOs themselves, are already IRL.

“If we understand DAOs as a tool providing two primary functions—a digital stamp (for immutably publicizing decision making) and an on-chain treasury—then there is always the ‘swan’s legs underneath’ of weekly Zoom syncs, discussions on forums, notifying people on Telegram to vote on proposals, that happen off-chain, accompanying what is visible on-chain,” Berjack explains. “So, in that sense, you could say DAOs are never a purely on-chain affair.” 

In the more literal sense, the physical and virtual worlds of Web3 are already being connected. OFP is a leader in the ReFi (regenerative finance) space, which is currently experiencing a lot of momentum. OFP acts as a “forest oracle,” bringing data from real forests and trees planted, then verifying them on-chain through the  distributed network of validators. 

Berjack says that OFP is also planning to progressively decentralize and govern itself as a DAO. And they aren’t the only projects in the ReFi space doing so. The ReFi platform Ecorise’s DAO buying up land, staking it (as an NFT) in their vault, and creating a coin pegged to these natural assets to create an alternative income stream for ecosystem services and regeneration. Klima DAO, which brought an explosive interest to the ReFi space, tokenizes carbon credits and drives up demand in the market, urging carbon credit buyers to pay a higher price for their offsets, which incentivizes companies to reduce emissions.

Block Science’s Zartler echoes this sentiment. Beyond land-based DAOs for carbon capture, soil regeneration, and other sustainability projects, she also envisions DAOs paving the way for cyber-physical commons and local currencies, where there would be real world impact. 


“We will also see more NFT/AR tagging of artifacts which could be gameable for incentivizing coordination, like local trash clean up,” says Zartler. “DAOs are also an effective coordination tool to raise capital which could be used for pretty much anything; perhaps creating more land trusts, fighting injustices of the current system like supporting and developing affordable housing networks, sharing more unused resources (vehicles/houses), and enable layers of connection based on shared interest signaling/GPS proximity tech.”

There is also the recent launch of Unchain Fund, a new DAO fund built on NEAR, which is currently collecting donations for Ukraine in multiple tokens, including BSC, ETH, Harmony, NEAR, and Polygon. Created on AstroDAO, a DAO launchpad built on NEAR, Unchain Fund is having real world impact by raising funds for humanitarian purposes in Ukraine, including evacuation, shelter, food, and more. Over 700 volunteers are currently helping out with Unchain Fund in one form or another, and the effort is growing quickly. 

Using a funding model similar to Unchain, DAOs could be how community projects organize in the future, helping communities efficiently raise and manage funds for goals. 

“A lot of the benefits of crypto are present with the DAOs of today,” says Chloe Lewis, Co-founder of Marma J Foundation. “What’s missing are a lot of the human coordination elements.”

Lewis expects DAOs to evolve into community support platforms. All of the tooling will be built-in—the only other elements will be “the people and the purpose.”  

“As Web3 gains traction, I see DAOs expanding and collaborating to manage assets in much more complex ways,” Lewis says. “This will hopefully allow for more individuals to be able to add and extract value to communities in ways that are rewarding for themselves while also supporting the wider communities that they interact with.”

Luis Freitas believes that DAOs are flexible enough to pop up in most things humans and software do, playing important roles in how organizations operate, from households and larger corporations to use cases in warehouses, global logistics, and a myriad of things in between. 

“The Digital Assets industry will keep on growing in the years to come,” says Freitas. “My belief is that DAOs need to be at the heart of creating and managing these assets, and to participate in all sorts of digital decision-making processes.”

Faster and cheaper networks will probably yield more DAO experiments. In 3XR, one of Freitas’ DAO experiments, users create 3D spaces with references to other NFTs. 

“This is really interesting because the minting can be proposed to DAOs, so in a way DAOs are curating curator’s work,” he says. “This incentivizes DAOs to participate by placing them in the lifetime royalties of the asset they helped create.”

DAOs could also have an impact on team sports. Recently, NEAR announced a new partnership with SailGP, one of the world’s fastest-growing sailing events. As part of this multi-year partnership, SailGP is set to explore the sale of a new team to a DAO that will be launched on the NEAR Protocol. The SailGP team DAO’s community members  will have a say in athlete selection, team management, commercialization options, operations, and overall team strategy.

Sail GP and MotorDAO, which is democratizing how racing drivers and teams get funding for high-level competition, could inspire the entry of other competitive sports into Web3. In MotorDAO’s membership-based platform, motorsports fans directly participate in the benefits of ownership, driver sponsorship, events; they can also get retail perks, ticket packages, race day NFT air drops, and more. 

Ambitious, yes, but MotorDAO’s model could be used to create similarly functioning DAOs for other industries, like music, film and television, community investment, and more. 

To DAO or not to DAO?
It’s interesting to consider a future in which people, instead of telling others what job they have or social media platforms they use, identify themselves by the DAOs in which they participate. Individuals will remain individual, on their terms, but they will also be part of collectives that will have input into how Web3 evolves and integrates into the wider world. 

Croncat’s Trevor Clark believes mass DAO adoption will happen when the UX meets people where they already coordinate like DAOs, but just don’t realize it yet.

“Think of the mom groups that organize school activities, exercise groups at public parks, social good initiatives with a deadline—all of these groups are already DAOs utilizing disparate technologies (social media pages, SMS, email, etc) that could benefit from a DAO,” says Clarke. “The key will be unlocking the next generation DAO tools for everyday uses already in existence, similar to how Venmo took over the group dinner bill.”

Will everyone be part of a DAO in the future? Perhaps not. As Astro DAO’s Jordan Gray says, everyone is at different stages of technological adoption—and that’s okay. 

“There are still people who make candles and sell candles, or make soap and sell it,” says Gray. “So there’s always going to be people that are at different stages of technology adoption and technology relevant to their lives. I think that there will definitely be folks that are like in that Web2 mindset and they continue cranking away in the mindset.”

Gray says Web3 tools like DAOs present new opportunities, even for people and businesses who have grown used to Web2 and found success in it. “It’s about recognizing that there’s another wave of opportunity hitting and stepping into it,” he says. 
NEAR Community Update: March 13th, 2020
COMMUNITY
March 13, 2020
In this community update, we introduce Flux, a prediction market built on NEAR, to show how we’ll make our internal operations public and share the latest and greatest on content.

Stay Healthy!
In light of the recent global volatility, Near closed its office in San Francisco and canceled all in-person events. Until further notice, we are moving all of our interactions online.

To create community experiences we are curious to know what type of things you want to learn and talk most about. Let us know in this week’s vote, and we’ll share the results on Tuesday.

Vote Here!

Flux
Flux announced their fully redesigned app built on top of their protocol (see the announcement here: https://twitter.com/Flux_Market/status/1235958316708302849?s=20). This app allows users to onboard into Flux via the NEAR wallet in seconds and trade on a range of markets. Use cases include politics, stock-markets, private companies, sports, esports, and even insurance. All trading is done in DAI, a stable coin pegged to the US Dollar.

In addition, ARterra an eSports engagement platform announced a partnership launching tailored eSports markets on top of Flux Protocol (go check it out here: https://twitter.com/ARterra_company/status/1237078763516694529?s=20).

Peter and Jasper — the founders of Flux
Content Highlight
“Not only should it feel like a Web2 backend, it should feel truly serverless.” — Sasha

Abel’s Abstracts recorded a podcast with Sasha on NEAR and the Open Web Collective! 

Tweet preview
Web: https://anchor.fm/abelsabstracts
Apple Podcasts: https://apple.co/38B6uNf – 
Spotify: https://spoti.fi/3cPDJiS 
Join Our Public Meetings
As part of being an open community, we are beginning to make our meetings public. You can see them on this calendar. Join to listen, make suggestions and start discussions (within the scope of the meeting). 

We are starting with the following meetings: Middleware Work Group (Wasm, Runtime, RPC, etc.) and Eth Bridge Work Group.

Additionally, we invite you to join our forum discussions: https://commonwealth.im/near/.

Welcome our new team member Huxley!
How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.
Welcome to NEAR, the B.O.S
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 4, 2023
Create an Account
The blockchain space has come a long way since its inception in 2009, when Bitcoin was released. But building mainstream blockchain applications — commonly referred to as Web3 apps, or dApps — still remains a challenge. Building Web3 apps on most chains require  learning chain-specific programming languages, or use paradigms that are completely alien to web developers. And even after building a successful Web3 app,  projects quickly find there is no simple way to onboard users, especially those that are later in the crypto adoption curve. Interacting with a Web3 app requires the download of a wallet like Metamask and converting fiat to a desired token. As a final barrier to entry, the transaction fees may be so high that the benefit of using the app becomes redundant to the user.

It’s precisely these problems that NEAR Protocol was created to address. In NEAR, web developers can build Web3 apps using languages they know and love such as Javascript and Rust. What’s even better is that these applications can then be used by simply logging in with an email — no blockchain knowledge, add-on wallets, or crypto needed! This amazing user experience is achieved thanks to a robust tech-stack built with simplicity in mind. The combination of developer-friendly smart contracts, Web3 applications, and user-friendly onboarding tools is what makes NEAR the B.O.S (Blockchain Operating System).

NEAR’s B.O.S make it easier than ever for developers to build multi-chain web applications, while providing a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences. You no longer have to choose between decentralization and discoverability. Whether you’re a developer new to Web3 and want to play around, or somebody looking to build in the open web, you’ll find a treasure trove of components, code, and a thriving community to help get you started. 

Read through this blog to learn how you can also be a B.O.S.

Use languages that you already know
Simplicity of use for developers is at the core of NEAR’s tech stack. With Near you can use Javascript or Rust throughout the whole development process. This includes the creation of smart contracts and their testing, using our friendly API to connect your existing frontend to the NEAR Blockchain, as well as building fully composable applications that talk with any blockchain. 

Thanks to our vast library of Javascript and Rust tools, any web developer can easily adopt NEAR technology and be onboarded into the B.O.S. 

Develop, build and deploy multi-chain Apps —‚ all in 1 day
Building a traditional web app entails a long list of needs, such as: installing an IDE (such as VSCode), setting up a development environment (e.g. node.js), then of course building the WebApp (lots of Javascript goes here). Even after finishing the application, another hurdle lies ahead — you still need to publish it! This generally means obtaining and setting up a hosting service such as Firebase or Vercel.

A powerful Web3 alternative is to join the B.O.S at near.org. NEAR offers a comprehensive set of tools and capabilities to get developers started quickly. TLDR: Code what you want, fork what you don’t! You can navigate through the component library (currently more than 10,000 components available!), choose the ones you need, and compose them into a full web application. 

Do you want to build an exchange that allows people to also have discussions? Simply fork a token-exchange component and the discussion component, and compose them into a single app. It’s that simple. What’s even better is that B.O.S is readily interoperable with multiple blockchains. If you want to build a frontend that talks with Ethereum, NEAR’s environment is set up for you, and it’s not only Ethereum — support for many other networks area always being added! 

Thanks to the B.O.S, you can focus on building what you want — simply fork, adapt, and incorporate the work of our community to speed up the process. 

Seamless onboarding for Web3
On a typical website, you arrive and login with your email. That’s it — the onboarding journey is over. Now let’s compare that with the usual Web3 onboarding. 

On Web3, you come to a blockchain-based app and are asked to install Metamask or an equivalent, which will create an account for you. But here is the catch: to use the account you’ll need to figure out where to buy crypto (and which crypto) to put in the account, at which time you will realize that your account is just a bunch of random numbers and letters. This painful onboarding has hampered Web3 adoption since cryptocurrency’s very beginnings. 

To tackle this problem, NEAR offers FastAuth, a technology that directly links your email account to a NEAR account. In this way, users can simply login to any NEAR app using their email, just as  every web application allows. Even better, the user will be able to use exactly the same NEAR account if they login into any other application using their email. 

What’s even better is that users can enjoy B.O.S apps without the need to obtain crypto! NEAR supports ‘0 balance accounts’, meaning that people do not need to hold crypto in their wallets. Instead, developers can pay for the gas of their users through what is known as a ‘Relayer’. Relayers are super simple to set up, and anyone can create their own. Thanks to the FastAuth and Relayers tech, users in B.O.S experience a simple and seamless web style onboarding. In practice, this means that developers can build Web3 apps ready for mass-adoption from the get-go.

Instantly access thousands of users and devs
The current Web3 landscape is multi-chain and therefore highly fragmented, making it hard to discover the amazing experiences Web3 has to offer. NEAR’s B.O.S fixes this problem by combining a thorough search experience with social collaborative tools. With B.O.S, you can quickly search for Web3 apps and components other developers built, as well as connect with other devs and communities. Moreover, you can leverage its social aspects to shill your application, gather feedback, and expose your work to a large audience.

Shill your project as soon as you finished just as @zhocuy did

Easily bridge Web2 and Web3
B.O.S enables developers to easily supercharge traditional web apps with Web3 experiences through what we call ‘Gateways’. Gateways are simple web apps that work as access points to the Web3 — they have the capability to read components from the B.O.S and render them for their users. The best example of a Gateway is near.org itself! Gateways makes composing React and Web3 components easier than ever, helping to bridge Web2 and web3 development. This way, developers can focus on writing an application using technologies they know (React/Next.js), and effortlessly supercharge them with Web3 components.

All supported by a fast, cheap and robust network
Everything we’ve talked about so far runs atop the NEAR Protocol: a blazing fast, cheap, and robust blockchain. Indeed, transactions can be as low as 0.0008Ⓝ — less than a thousand of dollar’s cent! 

On top of that, transactions are objectively fast, and are processed in less than 1.2 seconds (the current processing time is 1.11s). All of this runs atop of the most stable chains ever created. NEAR has enjoyed 100% uptime since its launch, recently crossing the 100 Millon block produced with the network never going down!

Build and discover apps on NEAR: the B.O.S for an Open Web

NEAR’s B.O.S tech-stack is deep yet accessible to everyone. It allows you to develop smart contracts and build composable applications using Javascript and Rust. B.O.S also allows you to easily go multi-chain, extending your reach beyond NEAR’s network and across other major blockchains such as Ethereum. Finally, its social component allows you to publish your application easily on near.org and leverage a growing community of developers and crypto enthusiasts.

Build amazing apps, deploy them, gather feedback, and interact with your community — all in the same platform.

Visit Near.org. Let’s build an open web together!
Knaq and NEAR: A New Era of Fan Engagement with Web3
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 10, 2023
Knaq, the pioneering fan loyalty platform, is poised to transform the way fans interact with their favorite creators on both Web2 and Web3 social media platforms. In collaboration with the NEAR Foundation, Knaq aims to foster more meaningful interactions within creator communities while providing true utility to NFTs and tokens via a summertime soft launch. 

By leveraging NEAR’s fast and scalable blockchain, Knaq will offer a seamless user experience through a user-friendly browser extension and redemption marketplace. This exclusive partnership empowers fans and creators, enabling them to benefit from the innovative features and rewards offered by Knaq and its diverse range of brand partners.

With Knaq’s unique vision and NEAR’s robust platform, the stage is set for a new era of fan engagement and loyalty in the creator space.

A perfect match for seamless creator engagement
Loyalty and rewards programs have become an integral part of our daily lives, shaping our experiences with various services and products. Knaq recognizes the potential of this concept and seeks to bring it to social media users who invest time and energy in engaging with their favorite content creators. By partnering with NEAR, Knaq brings the benefits of Web3 and crypto to the creator space.

Knaq’s browser extension and redemption marketplace, powered by NEAR, offers a seamless onboarding process for users as they engage with their favorite creators. This allows easy compatibility with existing crypto wallets and provides an effortless sign-up process using Google OAuth. Fans and creators can link their social media accounts to start earning rewards, while NEAR’s platform facilitates secure and efficient transactions.

The partnership between Knaq and NEAR Foundation brings additional benefits to users in the form of enhanced scalability and accessibility. NEAR’s highly scalable blockchain allows Knaq to handle high volumes of transactions, ensuring that the platform remains fast and reliable even as its user base grows. NEAR’s focus on user-friendly solutions also aligns with Knaq’s goal of making its platform accessible to a wide range of social media users, including those who may be new to Web3 and crypto.

Knaq’s exciting fan and creator features built on NEAR
NEAR’s technology enables Knaq to offer a multitude of exciting features and benefits that elevate fan engagement to new heights. By bridging the gap between Web3 and Web2 content platforms, Knaq delivers an experience that not only rewards fans for their support but also empowers creators to foster stronger connections with their audience.

One of the exciting features enabled by NEAR is the use of NFTs to grant exclusive access to live and virtual events. These NFTs offer fans unique opportunities to interact with their favorite creators and enjoy immersive experiences, while creators benefit from enhanced engagement and revenue generation.

Knaq’s engage-to-earn model rewards users with tokens for their engagement on all social media platforms, starting with YouTube. Built on NEAR, these tokens can be redeemed for various perks within the Knaq app and in real life via Knaq’s brand partners, providing fans with tangible incentives for their continued support. This, in turn, boosts creator engagement and revenues, making the platform a win-win solution for all parties involved.

Through Knaq, fans also get a behind-the-scenes look at their most beloved creators. This feature allows for a deeper connection between creators and their audience, building a stronger sense of community and loyalty.

Lastly, Knaq users have access to all related drops, tokens, and ecosystem incentives, with the first one planned for shortly after launch for early waitlist users. Thanks to NEAR’s robust platform, these initiatives can be seamlessly executed, further enhancing the value and utility of the Knaq experience for both fans and creators.

Knaq and NEAR: Powerhouse team and exciting prospects
The team-building Knaq brings together experienced creators, builders, and investors from both traditional markets and the crypto space. Their diverse backgrounds include working with renowned brands like Starbucks, ULTA Beauty, Buzzfeed, and J.P. Morgan, as well as prominent players in the crypto industry such as Circle, OKX, and Genesis Block. With a strong foundation and support from NEAR, Knaq is well-positioned to make a significant impact in the creator industry.

As part of their commitment to transparency and community engagement, the Knaq team will be fully doxxed in Discord, building trust and openness with users. NEAR’s collaboration has been instrumental in bringing Knaq to life, providing the technological backbone necessary for seamless integration and exceptional user experience.

The exciting features and benefits of Knaq set the stage for a new era of fan engagement and loyalty in the creator space. With innovative rewards and incentives, Knaq is poised to revolutionize the way we interact with creators, paving the way for a more engaging and rewarding experience for fans and creators alike.

Looking ahead, Knaq has planned a soft launch for the summer, with the first month reserved exclusively for those who sign up for the waitlist. This presents an exciting opportunity for early adopters to get a head start on the platform and even participate in a free giveaway post-launch. Creators interested in boosting community engagement are encouraged to reach out and explore the potential of Knaq and NEAR Foundation’s partnership. 

To learn more about Knaq’s rewards offerings and follow major upcoming events and announcements, sign up for the waitlist today at knaqapp.com. 
Introducing SeatlabNFT: The Web3 Startup Changing the Ticketing Game
CASE STUDIES
October 27, 2022
Music, sports, and entertainment ticketing is about to be completely reimagined. SeatlabNFT, an NFT ticketing platform built on the NEAR blockchain, is bringing fans closer to their favorite artists and sports teams, while also making the ticketing game a lot fairer by reducing scalping and touting.

NFTs in sports and entertainment are becoming more widespread and high-profile. Professional athletes and musicians love flexing their profile pic NFTs these days. But there are more meaningful ways to use NFT technology in the Web3 space. This is precisely SeatlabNFT’s aim: use NFTs and the underlying technology to revolutionize ticketing.

How NFTs can make ticketing fairer
A major long-standing issue in the ticketing industry is control over the secondary market. Tickets to popular events often sell out in a matter of minutes—often due to scalpers and ticket wholesalers—only to reappear on the secondary market at a significant markup. It’s an unfortunate reality that many music and sports fans have come to accept.

“While various ideas to beat scalpers have been tried in the past, Web2 lacks the tools required to provide genuine control over the secondary market,” wrote Ryan Kenny, CEO of SeatlabNFT, in a recent op-ed for City A.M. 

“The result, in many cases, is that fans are unable to see the performers they love without paying extortionate amounts of money,” he added. “And, with the profit falling into the hands of scalpers, artists miss out on any revenue generated by secondary sales.”

The SeatlabNFT live event and ticketing platform, built on NEAR, has a clear plan to solve those issues. Artists will be able to mint and sell tickets directly to fans on SeatlabNFT, while those who purchase will avoid scalper markups. And unlike buying a ticket in today’s secondary market, NFT technology will ensure that the ticket they buy isn’t fraudulent.

“With the arrival of Web3, there is a huge opportunity to change this dynamic by issuing tickets as NFTs,” wrote Kenny. “NFT technology is a natural fit for ticketing, as it solves many main problems plaguing the event ticketing industry.”

But maintaining fair pricing and putting more revenue into the pockets of creators themselves is just the tip of the iceberg. SeatlabNFT has other ideas for how to use NFTs to change the ticketing landscape.

Creating more profound relationships with fans
SeatlabNFT has big plans to help artists and teams make the fan experience much more fun, immersive, and bi-directional. Fans and attendees will feel less like consumers being sold an experience, and more like active participants. SeatlabNFT’s NFT platform will open doors and opportunities to increase fan engagement and loyalty.

For starters, artists will be able to create, issue, and sell NFT collectibles associated with various live events. This goes beyond images, as NFTs can also exist on the blockchain in the form of audio recordings, videos, and other forms of digital artwork. These event-associated NFTs could be airdropped on demand, displayed online, or traded with the same smart contracts used to control the secondary market for tickets. 

Creators can also airdrop event-based NFTs or collectibles using SeatlabNFT smart contracts, rewarding some of the best and most loyal fans who attend live events. For instance, a musical artist could airdrop NFTs to fans who have been to multiple live shows, with their attendance verified by the blockchain. This gives creators the chance to issue everything from digital collectibles to utility NFTs that grant things like discounts on merch, early access to future sales or even unlock on-site perks like access to restricted areas or free food and drink.

Ticket royalty splits and price ceilings
Underpinning all of these NFT ticketing value propositions is SeatlabNFT’s smart contracts that enable royalty splits (on NEAR, royalty splits are baked into smart contracts) and price ceilings. Royalty splits and price ceilings give artists and event organizers the tools they need to fight back against scalping. It allows creators to configure the tickets before they go on sale, and ensures that even on the secondary market, event creators can still capture the value they create.

With these cutting-edge ticketing efforts, SeatlabNFT is working to create a fairer, more transparent, and equitable playing field for all parties.

What’s next for SeatlabNFT
SeatlabNFT is currently in Phase 2 of its roadmap, with a variety of features and functions already live. The SeatlabNFT app is downloadable on the Apple App Store and Google Play Store, with tickets to various events currently on sale. 

The SeatlabNFT membership card available on the app is also a precursor to the Immersive Fan Pass, an NFT-based fan membership card program exclusively on SeatlabNFT. These passes will be NFTs with various tiered utility and benefits that artists can offer as part of an immersive fan club package. Backstage passes, early access to demo tracks, and artist meet-and-greets are just a few potential ways the Immersive Fan Pass could be used.

SeatlabNFT also just announced a new partnership with Elrow, one of the world’s biggest dance brands. At Elrow’s Dubai festival, scheduled for February 18, 2023 , SeatlabNFT technology will be used for exclusive VIP ticketing and immersive experiences. Elrow Dubai is taking place at D3 Dubai Design District, which can accommodate up to 10,000 people, making it a great opportunity to onboard many new people into both NEAR and Web3.


The ticketing industry and experience are long overdue for disruption, and SeatlabNFT is well on the way to doing just that. Artists, creators, and sports teams can offer more fair pricing to their fans while receiving a greater share of the revenue via SeatlabNFT’s royalty split smart contracts. And fans get better pricing with the peace of mind that they’re purchasing an authentic ticket.

And even more exciting, integrating NFT technology into the ticketing space opens the door for limitless possibilities in connecting fans with their favorite artists and teams. Linking exclusive digital NFT collectibles and airdrops with tickets is ripe for experimentation, and the Immersive Fan Pass will engage fans on a level never before seen.


Guild Program Launch
COMMUNITY
June 4, 2020
At the beginning of the year, we started our Contributor Program to directly work with community members on NEAR initiatives. Since we began, people around the world have been looking for ways to get more involved. Communities have spontaneously popped up, both online and in-person, to support the project. For instance, the Russian NEAR community has reached several hundred active members. 

The main goal of the next stages of our MainNet launch is to further decentralise the protocol. This does not only include technical power distribution but also community involvement. Building on the experience of our contributors, we would like to make it easier for organizers and leaders to get support for their communities and receive rewards for the work they do to drive the mission forward for all of us.

We are thrilled to announce the launch of the NEAR Guild Program. 

Guilds date back to the Roman times, where they were connected groups of builders, makers or merchants. More recently, the term has transitioned into the gaming world to describe teams of players who unite to support each other on missions and quests. In our case, Guilds refer to community hubs with a common interest in supporting the open web ecosystem. 

Guilds are represented by a Guild Leader. The Guild Program gives Guild leaders and their communities rewards when their work is aligned with a healthy ecosystem. These rewards might include things like the number of active developers or apps associated with the Guild, referrals provided to other NEAR programs, running validating nodes or simply claiming bug bounties.

Who Should Lead a Guild?
Are you excited about the open-web space? Maybe you are currently building and nurturing a community or you are tired of standing on the sidelines and want to get involved yourself. Maybe you already have a vibrant community as part of your business or just a circle of friends who like to read white papers. Guilds are for the blockchain enthusiasts, the futurists wanting to create a better tomorrow, the early adopters and technical gurus.

If this speaks to you, you can either start a new community or register your existing community as a Guild. This program is designed to empower those who want to take ownership of their community, to get developers engaged in the open-web space and set up community members for success. 

This is the second NEAR community program. The existing Contributor Program is focused on individual contributions to NEAR’s engineering efforts and it will continue. The Guild Program is focused on community contributions. In essence, the Contributor program is “Single-Player mode” and the Guild Program is “Multi-Player mode.”

The Difference between Contributors and Guilds
If you identify more with the contributor program, we would like to invite you to sign-up here. 

Cross-Guild Cooperation
As a Guild Leader, you will be able to share resources with other Guilds so you can advance the skills of your community. This will allow us to advance as a global community. 

The exchange of resources, initiatives and idea generation will take place within the online portal. Think about it as a knowledge base.

You can use the portal to:

Connect with other Guilds and NEAR contributors
Highlight your successes
Receive rewards based on the initiatives you share
Receive community support and participate in global initiatives
Take the Community Into Your Own Hands
What do we mean by this? In short: As a Guild Leader, you decide how you want to shape your Guild. 

Do you want to run online meetups? Have in person-events? Host workshops or invite external speakers? 
Where is your community going to interact? In-person, on Discord or Telegram? 
Do you want to shape your community around a project? Will it be focused on developer or validator education?
The only thing we ask you is to share your local knowledge, initiatives and resources with the global team of Guild leaders. 

Rewards
A fundamental belief of the Guild Program is that NEAR communities should be rewarded for contributing to the progress of the ecosystem. There are three ways this will occur in the Guild Program: one-time “Boosts”, ongoing “Rolling Rewards” and “League” rankings. 

Boosts apply to one-off activities, such as bounties, that a Guild can claim within a fixed time period. These are centred around engaging community members to participate in the NEAR ecosystem. Additional examples of Boosts include referring people to other NEAR programs or to use apps on the network.

Rolling rewards will be offered based on the Health, Power and Contribution of the Guild’s members. In other words, these reflect how engaged Guild members are, how active they are in core ecosystem activities like developing apps or running nodes, and how many one-time rewards they have collected along the way.

Finally, the League system provides a ranking of top Guilds based on their growth and effectiveness. An active and growing Guild community will advance to higher leagues and receive rewards. Here is the initial league structure and associated rewards:


Note that the number of tokens listed here is subject to change over time. Additionally, citizens in some geographies (for example non-accredited US and Canadian citizens) may receive alternative rewards that are not in token form. 

Additional perks will work their way into the Guild Program over time. The goal of the program is to identify and reward communities who provide value to the ecosystem. Thus, incentives will be adjusted to make sure that’s the case. 

For Example: The Berry Club of Ukraine
The Berry Club of Ukraine (“BCoU”) is a fictional Guild which engages its members by hosting educational workshops and occasional hackathons. They have an active Telegram community where they keep in touch with each other and many of their members are developers who build with NEAR. 

One team of developers won a Hackathon this month and their app has been a surprise success. They run a validating node as part of the Stake Wars program to play with the network and learn.

The BCoU might receive the following rewards one month (which are purely for demonstration purposes and may not reflect actual reward structures):

Boosts: 1,720 NEAR
Boost this month: New referrals to the Developer Program: 34 @ 10 NEAR each = 340 N
Boost this month: member participants in the NEARHacks online hackathon: 15 @ 20 NEAR each = 300 N
Guild Bonus: Additional 5% of prize for NEARHacks first place rewarded to team from BCoU: 20,000 N @ 5% = 1,000 N
Multi-month ongoing Boost: Members who fund their NEAR wallet for the first time: 8 @ 10 NEAR each = 80 N
Rolling: 981 NEAR
Currently active members of the Developer Program linked to BCoU: 55 @ 10 NEAR each = 550 N
Bonus for successful apps deployed by BCoU members: 331 NEAR
Running a node with 99% uptime on BetaNet as part of the Stake Wars program: 100 N
League Ranking: 1,200 NEAR
Silver: Based on last month’s Boost rewards of 1680 NEAR and Rolling rewards of 445 NEAR, BCoU was the #9 ranked Guild and thus earned a 1,200 N bonus this month.
TOTAL: 3,901 NEAR

Getting started
Submit an application to become a Guild Leader. If selected, we will follow up with you about next steps, including

Invitation to the NEAR contributor portal
Resources to help you get started
Do you want to start your own Guild and be part of our global network? Apply now.

Undecided? Have questions? Feel free to reach out in our community channel.
NEAR Community Update: January 11, 2019
COMMUNITY
January 11, 2019
2019 promises to be a very interesting year. As an industry, we’re in a phase which will separate the projects which actually ship from those who instead languish in endless research and fundraising mode and those who win over the developer community from those who instead built pretty ideas with no utility.

All of this plays to our strengths. ?

Community and Events
We’ll be busy in 2019 and should accrue a *lot* of frequent flyer miles. Prior to TestNet release, we’re keeping things fairly close to home but then all bets are off. You’ll see us speaking at conferences, running hackathons and hosting workshops around the world.

Is there a conference or event in your city that we should make sure to attend or speak at? Let us know by forwarding a note to [email protected].

Recent Highlights

[SF] Dec 19: Blockchain 101 Onramp: What are Decentralized Applications (DApps) and How Do They Work? (Video, Slides)
[SF] Jan 9: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Using Blockchain in “Regular” Web and Mobile Apps (Slides)
Upcoming Events

[SF] Jan 15: NEAR Protocol with Illia Polosukhin @ SF Ethereum Developers
[SF] Jan 16: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Design Best Practices for DApps
[SF] Jan 23: Sprint Workshop: Design Charrette for Blockchain Mobile and Web Applications
[SF] Jan 25: The Frontier of Sharding Research [Graph Day] (with Alex Skidanov)
[Online] Jan 29–30: Decentralized Summit (with Erik Trautman)
[SF] Feb 6: Blockchain 101 Onramp: DApp Development Basics
[SF] Feb 13: Sprint Workshop: Building on a Blockchain TestNet
[SF] Feb 27: Blockchain 101 Onramp: Best Practices for Developing DApps
Writing and Content
Cofounders Alex and Illia have started a new video series which puts technical leaders from two projects into the same room with a whiteboard to deep dive into their protocols. The first two videos, which feature Zaki Manian of Cosmos Network and Anatoly Yakovenko of Solana, are on our YouTube channel.

Dr Max Zavershynskyi surfaced some of the knowledge and best practices that have come from our work with Rust in Understanding Rust Lifetimes.

Teal is the color of #technology.
Engineering Highlights
We are now running regular internal hackathons to dogfood the protocol and focus on developer experience. The first of these christened our new devnet while the other focused on potential tutorial applications. We’ve become surprisingly good at repurposing Rock/Paper/Scissors logic…

As for functionality, the last few weeks have seen a surge in new additions:

The first version of NEARlib.js, which provides the interface in JavaScript to the network.
Switched accounts to be keyed by readable names.
Updated libraries, DevNet and AssemblyScript compiler to use JSON serialization of arguments and data structures. Removing the need for using an ABI and not requiring extra libraries.
As part of hackathons, built 6 example applications on NEAR platform. We will open source them with tutorials next week. More templates in Studio.
Added gas and mana (payment for cross-shard relaying) accounting for smart contract execution.
In the process of assembling components for TestNet.
How You Can Get Involved
If you want to stay up to date with what we’re building at NEAR, follow us on Twitter for updates, join the conversation on Discord.

 

https://upscri.be/633436/
NEAR Meet: Now Supporting Local and Regional Events Globally
COMMUNITY
December 15, 2021
The NEAR ecosystem is rapidly expanding on a truly global scale. Powered by Simple Nightshade’s super fast and low-gas fee transactions, developers are launching a wide variety of apps and experiences that will change the way we control our data, exchange money and goods, finance projects, and power the creator economy. 

NEARverse’s many virtual communities have been incredibly active and vital in sharing this vision. But to build a more successful, wide-reaching ecosystem, and to help users navigate the multiverse of blockchains, NEAR believes it’s also crucial to bring local IRL meetups to locations across the globe. 

Enter: NEAR Meet. 

With NEAR Meet, the Global Becomes Local
NEAR Meet is NEAR’s global program for local and regional meetup events. Our vision for these meetups is that they become spaces where locals and digital nomads from cities across the world can meet, share ideas, network, and collaborate on making Web3 a reality. 

By the end of 2022, we hope to have over 100 monthly NEAR Meet events. 

These sessions will empower local and regional contributors to successfully organize in-person meetups involving NEAR community members from around the world. We will also develop guilds and DAOs in strategic areas with emerging potential for the NEAR ecosystem. To that end, we will be experimenting with a multi-DAO structure that should help bring local and regional guilds together without introducing unnecessary bottlenecks.

If you’d like to attend a NEAR event, visit the NEAR Meet page. 

Become a NEAR Meet Organizer
In the NEAR Meet program, local and regional meetups will be organized by individuals in the Guilds and wider NEAR community. We intend to provide necessary resources to these individuals so that they can organize meaningful IRL experiences around the world. 

If you’re interested in coordinating events near your city, join our community of Guild leaders and contributors on Discord. Also, head over to the NEAR Meets Wiki, where you can find a wealth of resources on planning meetups.

Find a Meet Near You
NEAR Meet is a great place to start organizing events near you. Currently, there are 10 different NEAR Meet groups across 6 countries. Local and regional event coordinators, of course, are not required to use our Meetup. 
You can find a NEAR Meet right now in the following cities: New York City, San Francisco, London, Geneva, Lausanne, Zürich, Shanghai, Nairobi, Mombasa, Bangalore, Goa, Tulum, and more!
Watch the livestream from our first event in Switzerland:



Read blog posts and reports from events in Africa, organized by the Sankore Guild: 

https://medium.com/sankore2-0

Want to bring a NEAR Meet to a city near you? Check out the 3-step process outlined in this forum post, and feel free to reply there with any ideas or questions.

Write a Forum Post
Fill out this form
Host a Meetup!
Definitely check out the NEAR Meetups wiki page for an evolving resource about organizing IRL events, and jump in our Discord to find support and get more involved. And please contact us at [email protected] if you need anything.

To help anyone learn how to successfully organize a NEAR Meet, we are hosting a webinar on Discord Sunday, December 19, followed by interactive group sessions in the NEAR My City Discord community, at the request of participating event coordinators!


NEAR Launches Simple Nightshade: The First Step Towards a Sharded Blockchain
COMMUNITY
September 23, 2021
NEAR is launching phase 0 of its roadmap towards a fully sharded blockchain. This phase, nicknamed Simple Nightshade, will kickstart a year of changes and additions to the NEAR blockchain that when complete, will make it super-fast, incredibly secure, and capable of onboarding millions of users into the world of Web3 without skipping a beat. 

Since NEAR released the design for the protocol back in 2019, it was always designed to be a sharded blockchain. However, when we were preparing for the launch in early 2020, we realized that there was no need to launch a completely sharded network. Sharding is a very complex piece of technology, and the network was brand new. It didn’t need to be capable of handling hundreds of millions of transactions at launch. 

We decided to focus on the stability of the network first and launch sooner, so developers and entrepreneurs can start building on the NEAR Mainnet as soon as possible. However, after a few months, demand shot up. 

We have seen the average number of daily transactions rising to 300k. With the emergence of more and more projects building on NEAR, the number of transactions is only going to increase in the coming months. While the network is still currently using only 5% of the total capacity, we wanted to start the transition to sharding now to avoid any unpleasant surprises and ensure we can support all the applications on NEAR.

Like with our mainnet launch, we’ve taken a cautious and pragmatic approach to roll out any new features on NEAR to ensure our community is able to keep building without losing key functionality. As a result, we have created a four-stage rollout of sharding, which we’ve detailed below.  

Phase 0: Simple Nightshade
Increasing the Throughput of the Network
In this initial phase, we will shard the state, but not processing. We are going to split the current state into four shards while still having all validators track all shards. Nonetheless, the throughput of the Network will significantly increase.

In this step, we have built a mechanism to split a shard into multiple parts through live upgrades, which will serve as the foundation for dynamic resharding in the future. Meanwhile, because every shard is still validated by all validators, the safety guarantees remain the same. We plan to launch phase 0 in November 2021.

Phase 1: Chunk-Only Producers
Further Decentralizing the Network
In this phase, we introduce a new role: chunk-only producers, who only validate one shard. They produce chunks (shard blocks) for some specific shard and only need to run inexpensive hardware. Because they neither produce blocks nor contribute to the approvals, the security of the chain is not affected. 

The introduction of chunk-only producers also helps increase the total number of validators and improve the decentralization of NEAR as a whole. Once this phase is complete, we will have 200-400 validators and only a fraction of them (block producers) need to run more expensive hardware. We expect to deliver phase 1 in January 2022.

Phase 2: Nightshade
Increasing the Accessibility for Validators
In this phase, we finish the implementation of challenges, thereby eliminating the need for any validators to track all the shards. Once this step is completed, both state and processing will be fully sharded. This will also further lower the hardware requirements of running a block producer on NEAR, making the network more accessible for validators. We expect to deliver phase 2 in Q3 2022.

Phase 3: Dynamic Resharding
Unlocking NEAR to Infinite Scale
After phase 2 is complete, we will have a fully functional sharded mainnet with a fixed number of shards. In phase 3, we want to expand on that and create the ability for the network to dynamically split and merge shards based on resource utilization. This will make NEAR almost infinitely more scalable and resilient to short-term usage spikes. We expect to deliver phase 3 in Q4 2022.

Sharding is not the final phase of evolution for NEAR Protocol. Rather, we hope it’s just the beginning. We are simultaneously working on a number of improvements on the protocol level to build a secure, developer-friendly, and scalable blockchain that can support mainstream usage and adoption. 

For more details, please check out the protocol development roadmap. 
NEAR Community Update: December 14, 2018
COMMUNITY
December 14, 2018
The team continues to grow rapidly. Last week we welcomed three new members:

Leo Khan will lead growth. He comes directly from the blockchain-based real estate marketplace Propy and has grown projects from startups like Alpine Data to fortune 500 initiatives like IBM’s Watson.
Jane Degtiareva is a senior engineer with 13 years of experience who has worked at Google, Logitech and Niantic, where she built the microtransactions backend for Pokémon GO.
Jake Stutzman is a senior designer who has worked closely with established brands like HP, CAT, ESPN and VMWare and startups like InVision, Hudl and Boxee over the past 18 years.
In a very tight marketplace, we continue to attract the best in the world on both the engineering and business teams.

As we move towards the end of the year, our focus is on building and launching TestNet while mapping out our expansion into multiple markets. That collectively involves a website relaunch, the docs portal, a half-dozen developer tools, international events and a fanatical focus on developer experience. The team certainly isn’t bored.

A little design goes a long way.
Community and Events
Our local event series on blockchain education is in full swing and we’ve specifically focused on the user experience side of blockchains for developers while continuing to help educate the market on the importance — and challenges — of sharding.

Recent Highlights

Blockchain 101 Onramp: Start Here! Deconstructing the Blockchain Ecosystem. Slides are available on Slideshare.
Improving Blockchain Developer Experience: When UX Meets Developer Tools. Slides are available on Slideshare.
The video of Cofounder Alex Skidanov’s sharding talk with the Stanford Blockchain Club is available here.
The video for a panel at WDAS on Improving Scalability and Performance in Blockchain with Alex participating is available here.
Upcoming Events

[SF] Dec 19: What are Decentralized Applications (DApps) and How Do They Work?
[SF] Jan 9: Using Blockchain in “Regular” Web and Mobile Apps
Writing and Content
Cofounder Alex Skidanov has published a 2-part series that does a deep dive into sharding approaches. It begins with The Authoritative Guide to Blockchain Sharding and continues with Unsolved Problems in Blockchain Sharding. Both feature figures from Jake.

Engineering Highlights
Since open sourcing on Nov 28th, we have merged 70+ pull requests to the NEAR Core and NEAR Studio repos:

Implemented asynchronous messaging between smart contracts and shards.
Added meaningful RPC calls (stake money, send money, deploy contract) to the Node with Python and JS libraries to interact with these RPCs.
Automated contract method binding generation, thus removing the need in ABIs via handling arguments in BSON internally (implemented BSON encoder/decoder for AssemblyScript, and updated our fork of AssemblyScript compiler).
Extended NEARStudio to build & deploy smart contracts to DevNet in one click.
Continued work on TxFlow consensus and Beacon chain implementation.
How You Can Get Involved
If you want to stay up to date with what we build at NEAR, follow us on Twitter for updates, join the conversation at Discord.

https://upscri.be/633436/


Meet the 2023 NEARCON IRL Hackathon Winners
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 22, 2023
The wait is over! After a week of intense, dedicated work from the NEARCON hackathon judges, the winners of the 2023 NEARCON IRL Hackathon have been chosen. 

For the NEARCON IRL Hackathon, DevHub issued travel stipends to the most experienced hackers from all around the world. From Brazil and Canada to Spain, the UK, and beyond, the best builders traveled to NEARCON to celebrate NEAR’s global ecosystem. Those hackers who choose to stick around and keep building on NEAR will be eligible to apply to NEAR Horizon’s pre-acceleration program or the accelerator itself.

Without further ado, let’s take a look at the amazing projects that were built on NEAR. 

Developers Track Winner: Quex
Quex is an AI-powered NEAR Grant program treasury. A smart contract can automatically fund a project if a pre-configured ChatGPT concludes that it will satisfy the grant program criteria.

“The idea of a fully autonomous AI-controlled treasury captivated our imagination. We envisioned a system where AI, not humans, would have the sole discretion over the allocation of funds, paving the way for an unbiased and efficient distribution of resources,” wrote Quex developers Dmitry Meshkov (3x) and Alejandro V. Betancourt (Biz Dev, Metapool / Co-founder NEAR Misfits). 

“We aim to achieve the fully autonomous and secure DAO — even being the developers of this DAO, we should not be able to fund our own project until we get a ‘funded’ response from AI, and we’re not able to censor transactions to fund projects good enough from the chosen AI point of view.”

More details on Quex. 

Entrepreneurs Track Winner: ClickDapp
ClickDapp, a B.O.S-powered no-code tool to easily create, customize, and deploy dApps, was the winning project for the NEARCON IRL Hackathon’s Entrepreneurs Track. 

“ClickDapp was inspired by how easy it is to start a Web 2 company,” said developers João Veiga, Pedro Destri, and Rafaeldkb Borges. “No-code tooling empowers a set of different players, from devs to PMs, to entrepreneurs, allowing them to create and iterate on their products with zero to no difficulty, low cost, and faster development speeds.”

“ClickDapp is a no-code builder connected to the Near BOS library, giving devs, PMs and entrepreneurs the superpower of building entire blockchain applications and products without writing a single line of code.”

More details on ClickDapp.

Creators Track Winner: B4B 
An influencer-marketing protocol for Near Social Graph, B4B collects on-chain data about channel activity and enables the amplification of new and existing projects in certain NEAR communities.

“We have built a protocol that simplifies searching, analyzing, and managing influencer marketing through Near Social Graph,” said developers Anton Pecherkin, Ann Chuhnina, Gregory Melnikov, and Aleksandr Sokolov. “Additionally, it provides new monetization opportunities for content creators and influencers in the ecosystem.”

“B4B is a Web3-native influencer ad network that connects advertisers with influencers willing to create and publish ads on their channels. The B4B protocol protects advertisers and influencers by escrowing the budget and maintaining a transparent history of ad orders owned by users. During the NEARHACK, we connected the protocol with the Near Social Graph.”

More details on B4B

Regulators Track Winner: Proof-of-Reputation
Proof-of-Reputation is a mechanism that enables any user to get a loan using their on-chain activity as collateral and accomplishing the regulator’s requirement. In other words, it’s a simple, on-chain, and transparent loan protocol for underbanked regions. 

Small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) are the backbone of many economies. Still, they often face challenges in accessing loans — this is especially true in underbanked regions, where people may not have access to traditional banking services,” said the developers Luis Daniel Mendez Castellanos, Irving Yair Nava Hernández, and Alan Estrada. 

“Avoid complicated, bureaucratic, and lengthy loan application processes. All tracking is done on-chain using a Soul Bond Token,” explain the developers. “If necessary, complete anti-money laundering (AML) procedures by completing quests for proof of identity, proof of citizenship, and other requirements provided by third parties. Allow anyone in regions with limited access to banking services to get a loan.”

More details on Proof-of-Reputation.

Pitch Competition Winner: DeFi Builder
Using AI, DeFi Builder allows users to effortlessly launch powerful DeFi projects without coding. Its intuitive code-less tools unlock the doors to the next DeFi entrepreneurs on NEAR and Aurora.

“For the NEAR hackathon, we introduced an innovative feature: the AI Smart Contract Generator,” said its developers  Ravi Rasadiya, Alexe Spataru, Lorenzo Castagnone, and Daniel Morosan. “Utilizing the latest AI technology — which has been trained and fine-tuned on NEAR Rust smart contracts, JavaScript smart contracts, and Aurora EVM smart contracts — NEARAI can generate a variety of smart contracts tailored to the user’s specific requests.”

“The platform’s design focuses on automating complex processes like smart contract deployment, while offering integration across various blockchain networks, thus streamlining the journey from concept to market-ready DeFi project.”

More details on DeFi Builder.

Main Track Winners
Three winners took home prizes for the NEARCON IRL Hackathon Main Track. 

1st Prize — Obrigado
Obrigado allows seamless execution of heavy computational tasks, distributed across multiple computational resource providers.

“NEAR is aiming to be the OS for an open web with the on-chain frontend (B.O.S) and backend (WASM/zkWASM),” said the developers William S, João Vasco Pestana, Igor Perić, Souheila Sidennas, and Hojay Lee. “The missing piece is a way to process heavy computes such as training a LLM or analyzing DNA data.”

“Obrigado will allow seamless execution of heavy computational tasks, distributed across multiple computational resource providers (Task Runners), ensuring efficient processing and integrity of results, all within NEAR. Computing happens off-chain and book-keeping like job queue handling, result validation, node reputation, slashing and balances happen on-chain.”

More details on Obrigado. 

2nd Prize — Magic Build
Magic Build is a powerful tool designed to streamline the process of generating front-end interfaces for smart contracts on the B.O.S. It will help developers on B.O.S to deploy products faster without coding. 

“Our B.O.S Composer is a tool that helps create widget connections within the BOS ecosystem. It enables infinite scalability of nested widgets, increasing the depth and resource utilization of a website,” said the developers Hai N and Kuro Denjiro. “With B.O.S Composer, you can create multiple pages, export them as widgets, and then select and link these widgets together.” 

“Magic Build also supports horizontal widget connections through the “self customize” section, where you can input the URL of a widget, export it, and import it to establish connections with other widgets. B.O.S Composer simplifies the process of creating widget connections, enabling the creation of intricate and resource-rich web experiences within the B.O.S ecosystem.

More details on Magic Build.

3rd Prize — Web3 Plugin
A web3.jd plugin for NEAR Protocol and its ecosystem, Web3 Plugin provides the functionality of near-api-js but in the web3.js style.

“Developers who already use web3.js can quickly start working with NEAR technology with fewer things to read and learn,” said the developer, Muhammad Altabba. “All they need to do is provide the web3.js library with a link to a NEAR provider, add it with the plugin, then they can start working just like they are used to. Even though there will be slight differences that they’ll have to adjust for, we do our best to reduce them to the minimum.”

More details on Web3 Plugin.

Thanks for joining the NEARCON IRL Hackathon
Thanks to all of the participants who joined the NEARCON ‘23 hackathon! As you can see from the winners, there was no shortage of great, cutting edge projects built on NEAR. The NEAR community and ecosystem are strong and creative because of each and every project like yours. 

A big thank you as well to the NEARCON IRL Hackathon judges: Max Zavershynskyi (Leader, NEAR DevHub), Eric Winer (CTO, Pagoda), Alex Shevchenko (CEO, Aurora), Nate Geier (CEO, Mintbase), Laura Cunningham (General Manager, NEAR Horizon), Samantha Bohbot (Chief Growth Officer, RockawayX), Oleg Fomenko (Co-founder, Sweat Economy), Bowen Wang(Head of Protocol, Pagoda), Sandi Fatic (Co-founder, Calimero Network), Joe Spano (Co-Founder, ShardDog), MJ (Head of Product, Proximity Labs), and Diogo Monica (Founder, Anchorage Digital). 

The NEAR Foundation and the entire NEAR community looks forward to you participating in the hackathon at NEARCON ‘24! 

Keep hacking and building on NEAR.
Zero to Hero NFT Series: Happy Holidays from DevRel!
DEVELOPERS
December 17, 2021
It’s been a great year for the NEAR ecosystem and our developer community. We’ve hosted our first MetaBUIDL hackathon, rocked the crypto-boat in Portugal with the NEARCON, enjoyed a daily dose of Q&A on our Office Hours, and had a coding rush with the NEARvember challenge.

The DevRel team is simply amazed by our dev community, and we are thankful for the support and time every developer spends building projects on NEAR. So, as a humble way to say “Thank You”, we’ve prepared an NFT tutorial series so you can go from Zero to NFT Hero before the new year knocks on your door.

If you are new to Rust and want to dive into smart contract development, this series is a great place to start, especially if you want to learn about non-fungible tokens. 

In this “NFT Zero to Hero” series, you’ll find a set of tutorials that will cover every aspect of a non-fungible token (NFT) smart contract. You’ll go from minting an NFT using a pre-deployed contract to building a fully-fledged NFT smart contract that supports every extension.

NFT tutorials
As a sneak peek, here’s a list of the NFT tutorials that will bring you from Zero to Hero in no time:

Pre-deployed contract: Get introduced to minting an NFT without the need to code, create, or deploy a smart contract.
Contract architecture: Learn the basic architecture of the NFT smart contract and you’ll compile this skeleton code with the Rust toolchain.
Minting: Flesh out the skeleton so the smart contract can mint a non-fungible token.
Upgrade a contract: Discover the process to upgrade an existing smart contract.
Enumeration: Explore different enumeration methods that can be used to return the smart contract’s states.
Core: Extend the NFT contract using the core standard, which will allow you to transfer non-fungible tokens.
Approvals: Expand the contract allowing other accounts to transfer NFTs on your behalf.
Royalty: Add the ability for non-fungible tokens to have royalties. This will allow people to get a percentage of the purchase price when an NFT is purchased.
Next steps
If you’re ready to start, jump into our Dev Docs and begin your Hero learning journey! If you already know about non-fungible tokens and smart contracts, feel free to skip and jump directly to the tutorial of your interest. 

These tutorials have been designed so you can start at any given point, so you don’t need to start from zero if you’re already a Hero. 🙂


A Year on NEAR
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 11, 2022
A little over a year ago, NEAR held its first conference in Lisbon, Portugal. Fast forward to today and NEAR is back in Portugal, for the next chapter of NEARCON. But things have changed quite a bit in that time. 

To celebrate the second anniversary of NEARCON, the NEAR Foundation looks back at all the things the community has achieved across the year. 

A catalyst 
At NEARCON in 2021, the Foundation announced an $800m fund to help spearhead growth within the ecosystem and to back technological advancements that would simplify development and adoption of Web3. 

Under the terms of the agreement, the fund would distribute $250 million in ecosystem grants over four years, establish a regional fund of $100 million, and earmarking $100 million specifically for socially impactful startups and launch a DeFi focused fund, Proximity, with $350m.

Create without limits 
In the spring of 2022, the Foundation received $590m from the following key backers: Tiger Capital, FTX, a16z, Circle, DragonFly, and others.

To ensure the Foundation can maintain sufficient resources throughout the market downturn, the Foundation has been very conservative in how the funds have been managed. Exposure to non-NEAR has been limited, with more than $500 million of funds raised held in fiat in Swiss bank accounts.

This approach has left the Foundation in an extremely strong position to continue to distribute funds to high quality projects for the foreseeable future. 

Ecosystem Growth 
The ecosystem went into overdrive over the last 12 months. Here’s a snapshot of some of the ways the NEAR ecosystem has delivered stellar results: 

Wallets – the number of NEAR wallets has exploded from 1 million at the last NEARCON to more than 19 million today.  
Developers – The NEAR community has grown from 250 to 1,500 developers deploying on MainNet.  
DAOs – Thanks to projects like AstroDAO, NEAR has one of the largest DAO communities in all of Web3, growing from 50 in October 2021 to more than 800 today. 
Projects – When NEAR held its first conference, there were 100 projects developing on its blockchain. Today that number is 790, and growing quickly. The Foundation expects that number to pass 800 before 2022 is finished. 
Total transactions – Another huge growth signal. During NEARCON, the total number of transactions sat around 50 million, today that number is beyond 200 million, showing 4x growth in how active the ecosystem has become. 
External funding – One of the key markers of a healthy ecosystem is its ability to attract external funding above and beyond the Foundation. In the past year, projects building on NEAR have raised more than $300 million from outside funding.  
Total Value Locked – A measure of the relative health of a network’s DeFi ecosystem, during the first conference, there was $50 million in locked value inside DeFi projects. Today, that number is $600 million, peaking at $1.8 billion in April this year. 
Keystone Development 
During the past year the NEAR Foundation and the NEAR Community have hit several crucial milestones in developing the core components of a healthy and vibrant ecosystem. Below is a summary of how the ecosystem has matured over the last 12 months. 

Infrastructure and Integrations
Infrastructure is a catch all term for key parts of the ecosystem that are needed to help unlock mass adoption. These include things like wallets, bridges, oracles, zk technologies, privacy tools, and improved tools for developers. 

Integrations with the NEAR network are crucial to bring more users into web3. The following partnerships have been instrumental in accelerating NEAR’s connection with the rest of web3. 

Since NEARCON 2021, these key projects have been at the forefront of building out these capabilities on NEAR.  

Aurora
Pagoda 
Calimero 
Switchboard 
Octopus
Brave
Coinbase
BitGo
USDT 
Fireblocks 
Token Terminal
Copper
Gaming / Entertainment
The web3 gaming space is still wide open. While it’s still early days for gaming and entertainment in the NEAR universe, the following projects have all deployed on NEAR in the past 12 months. 

Armored Kingdom
SWEAT
Endlesss 
Niche
playEmber 
eFuse
NFTs
NFTs on NEAR have been growing rapidly over the last 12 months. Below are projects that have either deployed or have seen stellar growth: 

Few & Far
Mintbase
Paras
Seatlab
Stack Sports 
DAOs
NEAR has the strongest no-code, easy to use, DAO tech stack. It’s no surprise to see DAO growth be so strong in 2022. Below are projects have accelerated DAO development on NEAR. 

AstroDAO
OrangeDAO
SailGP
Flamingo DAO
Unchain Fund 
The Year Ahead 
While it has been a fantastic year for NEAR, the community is just getting started.

This year, the foundations have been laid, and thanks to NEAR’s simple, secure and scalable blockchain, it has an incredibly long runway to build bigger than anywhere in Web3. 

NEAR is the simplest, most usable and most scalable tech around. The next 12 months will be all about helping to bring more projects and users to NEAR. 

Create without limits! 
NEAR Foundation Launches New Validator Program To Further Decentralize the Network
COMMUNITY
December 2, 2021

Since NEAR’s Mainnet launch in October 2020, the NEAR Foundation has helped foster the growth and decentralization of a vibrant validator community. Historically, to become a validator, you would apply to the Foundation Delegation Pilot Program, ensure you have the right amount of $NEAR, and meet the program requirements. While this process ensured the continued security of the network, the amount of $NEAR required to be eligible to become a validator was around 3.6 million, locking out many aspiring validators. 

NEAR Foundation is happy to announce we’re making some changes to increase the number of validators who can take part in securing the NEAR network. With the introduction of a validator selection algorithm change, set to go live in mid-December, 2021, we expect the seat price to decrease significantly, allowing more capable validators to join the NEAR validator community. 

Announcing the NEAR Foundation Delegation Program
To support the growth and decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem, and to expand the validator set with the upcoming 1.23.0 Mainnet protocol upgrade, the NEAR Foundation is pleased to announce the NEAR Foundation Delegation Program.

This delegation program is looking to support validators who have contributed to the ecosystem and are ready to join the NEAR Mainnet. To ensure that we select the best and most capable validators, we’re encouraging all existing validators and potential validators to apply. 

NEAR Foundation will make the decision process for the Foundation Delegation as transparent as possible. 

Validator Delegation Program Requirements 
Technical Requirements: We expect the validator to run a NEAR testnet node and a NEAR mainnet node, demonstrating that they are ready and able to maintain nodes on the NEAR network. For mainnet readiness, having a mainnet node with a staking pool ready and standing by December 13th (the nearcore 1.23.0 protocol upgrade date) is a prerequisite for an applicant to receive NEAR Foundation delegation.

We expect all nodes to diligently participate during protocol upgrades. Each node should upgrade to the latest nearcore version within 12 hours of release if the protocol upgrade is labeled “CODE_RED” or “CODE_YELLOW”, and within 24 hours if the protocol upgrade is labeled “CODE_GREEN”. 

Additionally, nodes should show a high uptime on testnet and on mainnet. A monitoring period is implemented to ensure validator nodes have stable operations. 

Marketing Requirements: Beyond technical prowess and uptime, validators who could  demonstrate exceptional customer service to delegators and provide the best educational content to delegators will be considered as prime candidates for receiving NEAR Foundation delegation.

On the mainnet, we ask that validators present themselves to delegators and the NEAR community by providing metadata using the staking pool smart contract. Their name, description, and social media channels should be listed by providing the following metadata using the staking pool smart contract. The identifying information that we require the validators to provide are:

Name
Description 
URL
Country and country code
Email (for support)
Telegram, Discord, or Twitter
This information allows the NEAR community to connect with the validators for support, fostering a two-way communication between validators and delegators, as well as the wider NEAR Ecosystem.

Hosting: Validators self-declare whether they operate nodes themselves or use a third party, as well as whether they run their own hardware or use cloud services. We may ask validators to share some information regarding their setup. 

As NEAR Protocol is carbon neutral, we ask validators to think through how they offset their validator operation’s CO2 footprint, and communicate any CO2 offsetting that they implement on their end, such as using a renewable energy source to operate the nodes.

Commission Limit: We ask validators who would like to apply for a NEAR Foundation delegation to charge no more than 7% commission on delegation.

Ecosystem Participation: Applicants are expected to actively participate in the NEAR Ecosystem. To further evaluate applicants, we ask the applicants to provide as much information as possible on the following questions:

How have you contributed to the NEAR Ecosystem in the past? 
How will you contribute to the NEAR Ecosystem in the future?
Have you helped to onboard any NEAR validator? Please specify the pool name of the validator you helped, and what did you do to help? 
What is your long term marketing plan to attract delegation?
Application
If you are interested in becoming a validator and apply to the NEAR Foundation delegation, please submit your NEAR Foundation Delegation Program Application as soon as possible. The applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis.

December 13, 2021 is the deadline to submit your application.

Existing Delegation: Given the expected reduction in seat price, the NEAR Foundation delegation will be smaller, compared to historical delegation, without jeopardizing decentralization of the network. For the validators who had historically received delegation from the NEAR Foundation, we encourage you to also apply in the same application process. It’s possible that the existing delegation may be reduced to enable additional validators to receive delegations.

Validator Onboarding

If you’re interested in becoming a validator and apply for delegation, we ask that you start by setting up Testnet and Mainnet nodes, then submit your application for delegation.

We have collaborated with the Open Shard Alliance to build a bootcamp to help train new validators. To get started, please check out the Validator Bootcamp and join the Open Shards Alliance server for onboarding, as well as official validators announcement channels on Discord, Telegram and Twitter.

As the NEAR Ecosystem rapidly scales to include new developers and users, we are working to quickly decentralize our organization and foster a vibrant validator community. These moves will be absolutely critical in reimagining the way NEAR’s community members can build, gather, innovate, and grow together.


NEAR Foundation PR Roundup for January
NEAR FOUNDATION
February 1, 2023
NEAR Foundation hopes all of you are having a great start to the year. Here are some of the top news stories from the NEAR Foundation and our thriving ecosystem, as well as press headlines from around the globe.

Calimero raises $8.5 million in funding
In an exclusive with The Block, London-based startup Calimero announced an $8.5 million funding round co-led by NEAR Foundation to bring private sharding to NEAR. Calimero’s founders, ex-NEAR engineers Sandi Fatic and Mario Halambek, are building the “AWS for private sharding” and currently have their platform in alpha testing. The story has been covered across North America, Europe, Asia, and Africa, and is creating a lot of excitement throughout the NEAR ecosystem.

SailGP opens fan-owned team for investment
Another big story that hit the press was the first fan-owned SailGP team opening for investment.  As reported in Decrypt, the team was created by a modified community DAO on NEAR protocol, giving sailing fans the opportunity to run and invest in a team in their sport. The offer will close after $35 million in funding is raised and the team will debut in June 2023.

Sheila Warren partners with Forkast News
Sheila Warren, Advisor to the Crypto Council and NEAR Foundation, partnered with Forkast News to plot the course for Web3 in 2023. She identified regulatory decisions as a key area for the year ahead, with lots of activity expected in the US congress and India leading efforts in the G20. Sheila also identified Asia, and specifically ASEAN, as the region to watch for blockchain adoption and regulatory progress.

NEAR’s global press coverage
NEAR Foundation enjoyed coverage across every region in January, with 76 media mentions globally. One story covered extensively was Marieke Flament’s hopes for 2023 with Forkast News, predicting that the ongoing Twitter debacle has warranted an overhaul of the social media status-quo. Users are searching for platforms that are unbiased in their censoring of content and more transparent in their operations, presenting a key use case for blockchains. Marieke also outlined the need for continued improvements in diversity across the Web3 space to create a better working environment for everyone and improve decision making.

Towards the end of January, we partnered with CoinDesk to take a look at the impending crypto winter and how the NEAR ecosystem will fare. The Web3 industry is in for a tough 12 months due to a contraction in user engagement and a scaling back of venture capital. However, NEAR is primed to thrive in the year ahead — with major new infrastructure, including NEAR Social and NEAR Crowd, real world value on the NEAR protocol is set to take off. The Foundation continues to support our bustling ecosystem, and the development community is only growing stronger through the community DAOs.

Finally, Marieke Flament wrote about our recent Forbes post about the importance of servant leadership in the world of tech. Forget ego — this never bodes well in the long term.  

Leaders must do their jobs “for the broader impact they can go on to have,” said Flament. “There are many ‘fake servant leaders’ who pretend they are doing it for the benefit of others but are all too often caught by their own deception and greed, leading to a loss of confidence in authority that runs deep and has a lasting impact on the way people feel about work.” 

That’s all for this month. If we missed anything out or want to share anything for next month’s roundup, get in touch!
Sweatcoin Partners with NEAR Foundation to Create a New Movement Economy
COMMUNITY
April 12, 2022
Sweatcoin, the London-based tech company on a mission to inspire a healthier planet by incentivizing people to move more, has partnered with the NEAR Foundation to launch SWEAT, a radical new token. 

Designed to truly unlock the power of movement, this revolutionary cryptocurrency is minted purely by steps. With more than 63 million users who’ve walked over 19 trillion steps and 600+ brand partners who provided over $200 million worth of goods in Q4’21 alone, SWEAT represents one of the most significant steps in mobilizing the new movement economy. 

“Sweatcoin was founded with a vision to create a new economy of wealth through health,” says Anton Derlyatka, Co-founder at Sweatcoin. “For every 1,000 steps you take, you earn a Sweatcoin that can be redeemed for goods and services in the app from brands including Sonos and Reebok, or to donate to important charities such as Save the Children via Sweatcoin for Good.” 

By building the token on top of NEAR’s super-fast, incredibly secure, and infinitely scalable blockchain, SWEAT will be a unique showcase of a blockchain working at scale without fuss. 

“From the start, there was also a greater ambition: to make a global, open cryptocurrency, to more tangibly realize the value of movement,” says Derlyatka. “Blockchain wasn’t sophisticated or fast enough back in 2015, but thanks to NEAR, it is now.  SWEAT: the token turbocharges our mission to create an Open Economy of Movement for  a billion people.” 

“One of NEAR’s core missions is to help onboard the world to Web3, collaborating with SweatCoin allows us to take a step closer to that mission.” says Marieke Flament, NEAR Foundation’s CEO. 

How SWEAT token works
To get started, users download the Sweatcoin app, which allows them to assign value to their movement. As people walk, run, or otherwise move, the Sweatcoin app verifies steps as a Movement Validator. 

Eventually, the Sweatcoin Foundation will decentralize this movement verification process to enable other apps and wearables to verify new forms of movement. Users will then be able to earn SWEAT by swimming, cycling, hiking, working out, rowing, and more. 

Sweatcoin already has more than 63 million users who have walked over 20 trillion steps, which means SWEAT will become harder to mint over time. So, the earlier people walk, the more SWEAT they can receive, which can then be redeemed for goods and services in the app from 300+ brand partners, including Sonos, Reebok, and others. 

Why Sweatcoin is incentivizing movement
The World Health Organization (WHO) is targeting 2025 as the year to halt obesity. However, recent global estimates suggest no country will meet this target—instead, obesity rates are expected to double to 1 billion people classified as “clinically obese” by 2030. 

Sweatcoin intends to change this troubling trend by incentivizing people’s health and well-being. In doing so, the app aims to create a societal shift where people feel empowered and motivated to improve their health through reward. 

“The inherent issue with traditional cryptocurrency is that you have to use your own money,” adds Oleg Fomenko, Co-founder at Sweatcoin. “While SWEAT will be available to purchase, the key difference is that for everyday users, you invest your steps, which we hope is going to encourage people around the world to want to be more active. We’re investing in the future wellness of our users and literally letting them walk into the world of crypto.”

Sweat Foundation Ltd, in collaboration with Sweatcoin, will launch the SWEAT token this summer. 
NEAR Query API Beta Is Now Open for Apps Building on B.O.S
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 12, 2023
Pagoda has officially opened the Beta version of NEAR Query API, a fully managed serverless infrastructure offering NEAR blockchain #indexers, storage, and GraphQL endpoints. Developers can now build indexers for any smart contract using JavaScript and the NEAR Lake Primitives library, and store data in custom SQL schemas, all without needing to manage any infrastructure. This approach significantly simplifies the way developers interact with blockchain data and empowers them to build B.O.S applications with great user experiences.

NEAR Query API allows developers to store indexer code on-chain and receive an auto-provisioned database with GraphQL API and indexed historical data, continuously updated through an indexer service that closely tracks the blockchain. The GraphQL API supports paginated and aggregate queries such as count, avg, min, etc. It also enables subscriptions through web sockets, allowing you to create user interfaces that update data without page refresh.

With QueryAPI, you can quickly get GraphQL endpoints and use them directly in your dApps to enrich the user experience and improve user interface performance.

In the latest release, Pagoda moved to a more scalable and stable infrastructure and open-sourced the code to make it easy to run it yourself and contribute to future development.

Sample Indexers
Additionally, Pagoda introduced several sample indexers:

A social feed indexer for posts, likes, and comments with a corresponding component. This API currently powers the activity feed on near.org.
A B.O.S component indexer with a widget feed that updates automatically with every commit using WebSockets.
User Interface
The NEAR Query API’s user-friendly interface, built using B.O.S components, provides easy access to all indexers and key features of the platform that streamline the process of building indexers:

Access to all indexers built on the platform. Developers can learn from practical examples as indexers’ code and schemas are stored on-chain.
Edit code online with autocomplete for easy access to block data and SQL tables for efficient development.
Debug indexers on any block using the browser console for a familiar debugging experience.
Build GraphQL queries using the GraphiQL playground.
Auto-generate JSX code for swift B.O.S component development.
Monitor indexer status and access logs written from JavaScript code.
Start historical indexing from any block.
Documentation

Pagoda created documentation for QueryAPI to help you get started. Take a look at how it works, read about indexer functions, the context object, and check out the tutorials. To provide more insight into the capabilities of the NEAR Query API, the product team has prepared a walkthrough video that you can watch here.

Invitation to Beta Testing
Pagoda invites developers to register their interest in closed Beta testing of NEAR Query API. If you are interested in indexing smart contracts on Mainnet with moderate transactions per day, the team is eager to engage with you and help you get started. Please use this link to register your interest.

Build full-stack JavaScript dApps on NEAR
On NEAR, JavaScript developers can build smart contracts with low gas fees, fast and decentralized user interfaces on the B.O.S and powered by QueryAPI, and all without needing to worry about cloud infrastructure.

Pagoda will be working with B.O.S developers on improving the developer experience of building, debugging, using and maintaining indexers, as well as performance and scalability to prepare for general availability later this year.

Join in this exciting new chapter of full-stack JavaScript dApps with NEAR B.O.S. and NEAR Query API!
Well hello, NEAR Academy!
COMMUNITY
March 24, 2021
We’re proud to announce the launch of near.academy, a keystone of our educational onramp at NEAR Protocol.

Powered by the same team and technology behind Ocean Academy and Tezos Academy, NEAR Academy is purpose-built for web 2 developers looking for a hands-on introduction to blockchain concepts and code.

101Labs has done an incredible job of crafting an approachable narrative with a twist: The Meme Museum.

The year is 2029. The new internet is running on top of public interoperable blockchains. It seems crazy to think how the perception towards these technologies has drastically changed. The Internet of Value is more tangible than ever. Knowing how blockchain works is not considered a competitive advantage nowadays. It is a must-have. 

Behind the welcoming facade of the meme museum are multiple smart contracts written specifically for this learning experience. These include a custom NFT token contract and an NFT generator. These contracts work together to create an immersive experience for developers learning about NEAR Protocol where anyone can enter and everyone leaves with an NFT.

The learning platform is friendly and responsive, making it easy for developers to set their own pace through the learning materials. Along the way, developers must confirm their understanding of the material using a playful and inviting interface.

Developers who complete this course will come to understand the basics of web 3, a high level overview of how NEAR Protocol works as well as an introduction to writing smart contracts for NEAR. The learning experience includes diagrams, code samples and links to resources for further study. A certificate of completion is issued for anyone who completes the course.

This is just the first of many modules we expect to launch with 101Labs this year and we welcome your feedback. Our single mission is to educate the world about web 3 technologies using NEAR Protocol.

Visit near.academy today for a tour of the future.

NEAR’s mission is to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. The NEAR platform provides a decentralized application platform that is secure enough to manage high value assets like money or identity and performant enough to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands.

The NEAR platform, NEAR Protocol, and associated tooling are being built by the NEAR Collective, a collection of the best engineers in the world who work across teams, companies and countries similar to other large scale open source projects.

If you’re a developer who wants to see what building on NEAR is all about, check out the NEAR documentation to get started. 
Interactive Polygon zkEVM App Dashboard Launches on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 18, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that an interactive Polygon zkEVM app dashboard, has just launched on the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). This debut of Polygon zkEVM on the BOS will not only increase accessibility and discoverability for zkEVM developers and users on the open web, but also vastly improve user experience. 

Polygon zkEVM is the first zero-knowledge scaling solution compatible with the Ethereum Virtual Machine to integrate smart contracts and developer tools. The Polygon ecosystem DEX QuickSwap will host the dashboard, which will include BOS components for Polygon’s zkEVEM bridge and several top Polygon decentralized applications (dApps) including QuickSwap, Gamma, PancakeSwap, and Balancer.

With the interactive Polygon zkEVM app dashboard on the BOS, users can now discover and use zkEVM projects in a frictionless way. All of this can be done on one website, with users only needing to connect their wallet once to get started. The dashboard also simplifies access, making components uncensorable, highly available, and resilient. Users can also run their own version of the site since all code is open source and verifiable on-chain as a security feature. 

With this new dashboard on NEAR BOS, Polygon zkEVM developers will unlock a seamless onboarding experience and the quick-start components for which the BOS is known. The collaboration will accelerate the creation of dApps that will onboard billions of users into the open web. 

A major NEAR x Polygon ecosystem deployment 
The new Polygon zkEVM dashboard now combines the benefits of zero knowledge technology with the power of the BOS to unlock seamless onboarding to Web3. The NEAR and Polygon zkEVM collaboration brings a new suite of zero knowledge development capabilities to zkEVM developers and lets them build apps that can reach more users from day one.

The Polygon-NEAR ecosystem deployment underscores the BOS’s utility in helping developers easily deploy their own dApps with on-chain frontend code. With the BOS, any zkEVM app can now benefit from greater accessibility for developers and users alike, easier discoverability for the apps they build, and powerful composability. 

“The interactive zkEVM app dashboard  is an exciting tool  to support developers and accelerate the pace of large-scale usage of Web3,” said Jack Melnick at Polygon Labs. “NEAR BOS powers the platform as a means to achieve an easy and reliable way to onboard, which is critical to improving the dApp user experience and giving greater infrastructure accessibility.”

The BOS makes it faster and easier than ever for developers on NEAR, Polygon, and other open web platforms to build multi-chain apps and experiences. The BOS also empowers builders to focus more on creating great products for users than on managing infrastructure. 

“The Polygon ecosystem is achieving great traction in the blockchain space among developers and enterprises alike,” Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR. “We’re excited for this deployment to unlock discoverability for applications across the Polygon zkEVM ecosystem, powered by NEAR Blockchain Operating System. Developers on Polygon zkEVM will now be able to quickly bring applications to market by reusing thousands of decentralized components.”

A common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences, the BOS makes Web3 app development fast and easy, offering a comprehensive quick-start toolset for developers from any ecosystem. Developers can quickly build composable apps for the open web from thousands of flexible components, seamlessly onboard users, get real-time feedback from actual users, and increase discoverability across the open web, since all apps utilizing BOS are all visible on a common interface. 

With the shared mission of Polygon Labs and NEAR to accelerate mainstream adoption of the open web, and increase options for developers across blockchains and ecosystems, Polygon zkEVM’s integration on the NEAR BOS is a major step forward to empower more developers to scale Ethereum with the latest  zero knowledge technology.
Get started today with Polygon zkEVM on the BOS. 